001	The_Night_Witches	Collects the three Night Witch stories from Battlefields. The Night Witches were these incredible women pilots who bombed the Nazis invading Russia at night with biplanes of all things. Ennis writes incredibly powerful and tenacious women willing to sacrifice just as much as the men during WWII all while also dealing with misogyny and general male douchebaggery of the time. Russ Braun and Tony Avina deliver a 1, 2 knockout punch with the art and coloring. The book looks absolutely amazing.  Received a review copy from Dead Reckoning and Edelweiss. All thoughts are my own and in no way influenced by the aforementioned.
002	The_Night_Witches	"Though the main characters in The Night Witches are a work of fiction, Garth Ennis based them on real-life women, the female-Russian aviators who flew for their country during WWII. Their older airplane engines were too loud and alerted the Germans before their aerial night attacks, so the aviators developed a technique of cutting the engines and gliding over their targets before dropping their bombs.  ""You know what it's like when a P.O.-2 comes along, if you're on the ground you can hear it for miles, that pop-pop-popping the engine makes... Two more missions like that and we'll all be done with, unless we can magically stop them from hearing us coming.""  Their method of attack was unique and terrifyingly effective at robbing the invading troops of sleep and peace of mind. The Germans called these pilots, because they were women and attacked at night, ""Nacht Hexen"" or the ""Night Witches"".  This graphic novel is filled with violent warfare, rape, loss, heartache and other dangers the women faced during their service, including male counterparts who didn't want their help. But Russians were so hard-pressed in their fight against the Nazis, that they had no choice.  ""I think the notion of women aircrew is a joke; I think women combat fliers are a worse joke; I think women assigned to this base alongside my fighter squadron are the worst joke of all.""  It is a sad but true chapter of history. The Russians lost more troops than any other country in the conflict, a staggering twenty seven million dead.  They didn't have time to properly train or equip the people they were throwing at the Germans. It was a bloodbath. But the women flew and fought all the same. They were the most decorated female combat unit of WWII and their service is worth being remembered.  Recommended for adult readers who enjoy military history and aviation.  Thank you to the publisher for a free copy of this book for review purposes.  If you're interested in more non-fiction information about the Night Witches, check out The History Guy's video ""The Night Witches and World War II"": https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6F_po..."
003	The_Night_Witches	The Night Witches (Nacht Hexen) is what German WW2 soldiers would call a squadron of female Russian pilots who would attack them during the night, after switching off their engines and silently gliding towards their encampments.  Garth Ennis tells the story of these extraordinary women through the character of Anna Kharkova, a fictional amalgamation of real life accounts. It's a moving story that shows the double battle these brave women had to fight, between the German front and their misogynist male comrades. While they quickly prove their mettle, they are basically set up to fail by the interfering and controlling NKVD, the previous incarnation of the KGB.  There are more than a couple of flights of fancy (pun unintended) to make the drama flow more, but the book is most interesting outside of battle - a lot of deeper themes are discussed, without the whole ever becoming leaden.  When there are dogfights, I did have trouble following the action - everyone is wearing pilot hats, I have no eye for the mechanical details, so that's probably on me.  I wasn't a huge fan of the art, until I saw the sketchbooks in the back of the book (which also shows artist Russ Braun's origin as a Disney animator), which are beautiful. I think it has more to do with the colouring - where the colourist creates highlights on faces and objects, that give the whole an overly smooth, plastic-y feel.  That shouldn't stop anyone interested in this part of WW2 history, for whom this book should be an interesting starting point.  3.5 stars  (Received a review copy through Netgalley)
004	The_Night_Witches	If the Western Front in WWII is the story of determination and the triumph over evil, the Eastern front is the story of everything that is wrong with humanity. Totalitarianism, casual disregard for human life, putting principles over human decency, and the triumph of the small minded politically powerful. Through it all, the uplifting and sad story of women aviators in the Soviet Union is told through the (unrealistic as writer Garth Ennis admits) exploits of Lieutenant Anna Kharkova. Kharkova is a sunnier and less bitter (even when she is incredibly biter) character than I'm used to from Ennis, and she is truly memorable and a great contrast to the utterly horrible events taking place on the Eastern Front. Misogyny and authoritarianism make a terrible combination, and Ennis' piece can be read both as an affirmation of what is good in humanity and as a stark warning of all of the evil we are capable of.  **Thanks to the author, artist, publisher, and NetGaelly for a free copy in exchange for an honest review.
005	The_Night_Witches	Powerful. Lost track of time while reading The Night Witches. Before reading this, I knew nothing about The Night Witches and now I need more badass women in my life. Beautifully drawn.  Review copy provided by the publisher and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
006	The_Night_Witches	Wow! I know Ennis has done his fair share of war comics. I’m kicking myself for not checking them out sooner. This book is some impressive work.  Originally published as three miniseries, The Night Witches tells the story of Anna Borisnova Kharkova, initially one of the infamous Night Witches, an all female group of pilots who conducted night bombing runs against the Germans in World War II. Equipped with outdated biplanes, their tactics involved switching off their engines, gliding in to drop their payload, and powering back up for the getaway. As Ennis points out in his afterword, it can be argued how much physical damage they actually caused--for instance, their planes were not equipped with bomb sights--but they unquestionably took a psychological toll. The rattled Germans were the ones who came up with the “Nacht Hexen” designation.  The book follows Anna’s adventures during the war and beyond. The ending nearly brought me to unexpected tears just from the sheer perfection of the moment (I think that's sufficiently vague to avoid spoilers.)  I would say that this is one of the best, most satisfying books I’ve seen from Ennis in a while. He’s always been very much at home with military themes, and having an actual war comic to write really brings out his best. Russ Braun’s art is perfect, being alternately as beautiful and as horrible as the story requires.  If you're curious about Garth Ennis, but are put off by the sheer length of Preacher and/or The Boys, do give this one a try. Highly recommended!
007	The_Night_Witches	I don't think I liked a single thing about this book
008	The_Night_Witches	As a history buff, I know a little about the Night Witches. But I have to tell you, this book surprised me. The story and art quality are top notch, espeically for a historical graphic novel. The historical accuracy is strong, but with the author's notes in the back help clear up any issues. It is a fiction story but one can still grab lots of information from it. It's for the more mature audience due to the violence, themes, and language. But for those high school history buffs or those with an interest in the military, it should be a must read. It takes a real look what happen during WW2, good and bad. Finally, for those looking for historical graphic novels fiction or nonfiction, you need to have this one your shelf. It will be one you will pick up time and time again, just reread.
009	The_Night_Witches	This book is awful. Terribly paced with jumps in scenes that make no sense. Most importantly, this book is definitely a man writing about a woman. The female characters were vapid and boy crazy. Leave it to a man to diminish the contributions of women in the world’s most dire time of need. 
010	The_Night_Witches	"If you would like to check out more of my reviews please head on over to beforewegoblog.com  Women's roles in war are always played down or seen as insignificant. Even though, often, women played a huge role in major battles or information gathering. During world war II, women took over major industrial roles typical staffed by men. Women built ships, armaments, and trucks. They took over massive equipment operation, and difficult hard labor. For the US, women staffed over 400,000 support staff positions assisting in the war effort of US militaries. They are essential, but often their stories are not told. Enter Garth Ennis of Preacher and The Boys fame. Plus, about twenty other as great series. He is known for his deep storytelling, and no holds barred dialog. Pretty much anything goes when it comes to an Ennis novel. This is an important point to bring up because The Night Witches is based on a real squadron of female fighter pilots during World War II. Ennis had to mix his gritty storytelling and balance it against any accurate details he can glean from actual true-life events. Ennis quotes John Keegan's shocking dismissal of women as fighter pilots or even as fighters in general with ""'Warfare is ... the one human activity from which women, with the most insignificant exceptions, have always and everywhere stood apart ... [women] never, in any military sense, fight men.'""[1] Little is known specifically about The Night Witches, the soviet government has set to downplay its reliance on female personnel. But much can be guessed from the few personal histories that survived.  In response, Ennis has created a character that is a composite of the available information about female fighters at the time in the form of Anna Kharkova[1]. The premise of the story is disjointed, and I found it challenging to follow, but loosely it is about a group of women, named The Night Witches or Ночные ведьмы or in German, die Nachthexen. (The Germans dubbed them their moniker.) They flew nighttime bombing raids and supported Russian defense and offense. Anna flies everywhere and in all sorts of battles. She has love affairs, loses friends, kills people, and as the story progresses, you can tell that little bits of her soul dies. I think that it is the chaotic and disjointed nature of the story that makes it confusing. I liked Anna as a character, I enjoyed her fierce nature, and even though she is tiny, she is big in life and personality. Those who seek to underestimate her, do it only once. But I did not connect with her as a character except the little snippets of dialog that resonated with me.  Graphically, Russ Braun and Tony Aviña's artwork shine. It is gorgeously done with massive air gun battles and vivid war scenes. The artwork is almost reminiscent of World War 2 recruitment and propaganda posters. You feel like you are there in the scenes.  This story is a hard one to judge because, on the one hand, the artwork and war scenes are some of the best I have read. Snippets and vignettes of Anna's trials as a fighter pilot and on into POW camps are poignant and masterfully done. But as a whole, the story is too disjointed for me to care about Anna genuinely. Or understand the gravity of her actions at the end. I recommend it for the artwork and because it is Ennis because even bad Ennis is still a cut above most other storytellers, but I don't think this is his best work.  [1] https://www.npr.org/2019/03/16/698736...    "
011	The_Night_Witches	"The 'night witches' were a corps of Russian women aviators who fought the German invaders with low tech ""sewing machine"" bombers. To surprise their targets they would cut their engines and glide in from 7km out. At night.  Ennis depicts the personal toll on Anna, a (fictional) gifted pilot who watches her beloved navigator, her lover(s), her friends, and a parade of unprepared, untrained girls get fed to both the Nazis and the mindless, voracious Communist political machine.  A withering view of the horrors of war, the strategic hopelessness of the Russian position--they were technologically and tactically outmatched and compensated by throwing millions of their own citizens into the German meat grinder--and the self-cannibalizing emptiness of Soviet ideology.  It's good, but it doesn't live up to Ennis's best war story work. A bit of goofy The Boys-style depravity sneaks in from time to time and feels out of place. ------------------------------------ SECOND READ  Ye gods what a grim fate this hero suffers. Ennis treats Russians in this book with nothing but respect and the Soviet Union with nothing but contempt.  Russ Braun's bright, mischievous style worked for his collaboration with Ennis on The Boys, but it mostly feels out of place here."
013	The_Night_Witches	"I literally just finished this graphic novel and I'm about to flip back to page one and read it again. That isn't to say it was perfect--it wasn't--but I know that in my hurry to read it, I missed a lot of important details. Now that I know Anna Kharkova's story, I can take my time and chew it over.  I'm struggling with where to start my review because there's so much I want to say and most of it is more suited to a discussion than a review.  Depicting the story of a fictional female Soviet fighter pilot in WWII, The Night Witches is horrifying but important. The Soviet Union had a group of female bombing crews who only flew at night. They flew noisy little planes that were easy for the Germans to prepare for because they could be heard from a great distance. The Soviet pilots quickly learned to cut their engines at an appropriate distance so they could glide over their targets in silence and drop their bombs on the unwitting Germans. The Germans called them The Night Witches.  After bravely serving their country in almost every military capacity, the Soviet women were told at the end of the war, ""Do not talk about the services you rendered, let others do it for you. That will be better."" And their service was almost forgotten. Books like this help us honor and remember the brave women who helped save their country and who paved the way for greater freedoms for the generations of women following them.  I'll avoid spoilers and only say that the timeline of the book covers the war and decades of life in the Soviet Union afterward. Anna's life isn't easy and the book itself could be a trigger for some, with very graphic depictions of war violence, war wounds, and almost unspeakable war crimes.  As I mentioned before, the book does have some problems. I lost track of the number of men who almost immediately fell in love with Anna. The first third of the book, the section that's also entitled ""The Night Witches,"" alternates Anna's story with the story of a German soldier, Kurt Graf. I found Kurt's story particularly confusing. I couldn't understand which soldiers were fighting for which country and what the heck was going on. That's probably my fault for not paying more attention to uniforms or something, but I was pretty lost.  I felt that the relationships between Anna and the other women around her were pretty spot-on. They were very loyal to their friends, harsh to those they didn't like, and pretty blunt when checking out some of the men around them. There are no idealized ""proper ladies"" to be found here.  I particularly enjoyed the historical notes Ennis wrote at the end. I read a lot of WWII fiction, but I tend to read books set on the Western front that focus on civilians or concentration camp prisoners. I honestly had no idea that 27 million--you read that right, 27 million--Soviets died in the war. There are a lot more facts and figures that I didn't know, but they might get spoiler-y, so I'll stop there.  The group of women known as the Night Witches deserve to be honored and remembered, so, despite some flaws, I highly recommend this graphic novel for those who don't mind the raw violence it contains."
014	The_Night_Witches	Thank you, Literature, for reminding me of the horrors of war. Most movies and television shows avoid dwelling on the human suffering by moving quickly from one scene to another. Reading a book allows the reader to absorb some of the impact.  Garth Ennis is a creative, entertaining storyteller whose book drifts a little into historical fantasy. In comic book style, he keeps drama at the forefront, highlighting both the human compassion and the inhuman brutality taking place during and after the war. This book is beautifully illustrated. Russ Braun, while skillfully depicting war action, keeps the faces in focus as he conveys the tenderness of emotion through his drawings. The panels appear perfectly colored by Tony Aviña, and Simon Bowland's lettering is exquisite.  I really enjoyed reading this compendium, despite the rough language and some sexual content. On the strength of the artwork, I rate the novel 4 stars.
015	The_Night_Witches	"""The Night Witches"" is a historical fiction comic loosely based around the female Russian aviators of WW2. The comic is not great, but not terrible either. You get pages and pages of story that are focused on creating sympathy for nazi's. The author can't decide on how to characterize his female MC. The story and plot are somewhat interesting while also being outrageous enough to break my suspension of disbelief. I would be more critical of this if it wasn't a comic book.  Ultimately I think it would be more worth your time to just read about the historical Night Witches then read this."
016	The_Night_Witches	"I like this concept, Garth Ennis playing out the small aspects of WWII by inventing characters to take us through them. It's like having a memoir about something we might not be able to read a memoir about. It makes things more personal than ""And on this day, they did this, which moved the line this direction, which was good/bad, and here's some troop numbers just to show you we did a bunch of research.""  I'd pose that a high school history class would leave the students knowing a lot more if they just picked like 5 memoirs from/about historical figures and let the students go to town on it. At least they'd learn SOMETHING. I mean, Teapot Dome Scandal? What the fuck is that? Why do I remember that...okay, I looked it up. Boring.  Schools, you're welcome to use my curricula suggestion. For a very small fee. The Derk Education Framework is something I worked really hard on (just now), and I'd prefer to be compensated. What's that you say? This fee could deny an entire generation of students an improved education? Eh, I didn't get it. And I'm fine. Hell, I'm inventing educational systems over here."
017	The_Night_Witches	"at first i was like ""meh--a war comic?"" but then i started reading & LOVED it. granted i am fascinated by russian history...& russian women are pretty kick ass. "
018	The_Night_Witches	" ""We liberated Europe from fascism, but they will never forgive us for it"" - Georgy Zhukov "
019	The_Night_Witches	Good art and compelling story. 
020	The_Night_Witches	Find this and other reviews at: http://historicalfictionreader.blogsp...  My first thought on Garth Ennis’ The Night Witches was a question. Would the story fall closer to Kate Quinn’s The Huntress or Aimie K. Runyan’s Daughters of the Night Sky? My second thought was to chastise myself for assuming the three-volume collection would resemble either, but I suppose such comparison should be expected when one reads as much as I do.  Ennis’ The Night Witches is comprised of three volumes: The Night Witches, Motherland, and The Fall and Rise of Anna Kharkova. These books were initially released as standalone volumes 1, 6, and 8 in Ennis’ Battlefields Series and follow the experiences of their fictional heroine from 1942 to 1964. I am not familiar with the series, but I was delighted to discover Anna’s collective story published in a single release. Graphic novels often appear in segmented installments, but I felt this formatting allowed me to understand and appreciate Anna’s character development in a way I wouldn’t have if I’d been forced to track down each of the stories independently.  That out of the way, I caution readers from assuming the collection centers on the famed female Night Bomber Regiment. The first volume of the collection covers the tactical bombing techniques employed by the unit, as well as the impact of PTSD on both sides of the conflict. It is the most graphic of the collected volumes and presents fascinating questions about retaining humanity amid the carnage and violence of war. That said, it is the only volume to center on the Night Witches as Anna’s story extends beyond the unit’s existence.  Volume two tackles advances in both aircraft technology and warfare as well as sexism in the military. The impact of personal loss and PTSD also played a role in this volume, and I liked how it picked up on the themes of its predecessor. Though the story is very much centered on Anna, I found myself drawn to Colonel Golovyachev, Zoya, and Mouse. The supporting characters of volume one were interesting, but Ennis branches out in this installment, allowing the supporting cast to develop genuinely compelling arcs of their own.  Though I appreciated both volumes one and two of this collection, I admit volume three my favorite. Anna’s capture allowed Ennis to take the story to a Nazi prison camp, a detail I would have liked anyway but loved for its introduction of Chris Cohen, a character who singlehandedly expanded the political scope of the entire collection. Anna’s subsequent treatment by Soviet counterintelligence is equally illuminating, and I liked the political fluidity this episode illustrated between WWII and the Korean War. I admit that Anna’s return to captivity in a Siberian punishment camp during the finale scenes of the volume made hard reading, but even here, I was touched by what this chapter revealed about both Anna and Mouse.
021	The_Night_Witches	Let's get out of the way that I'm a big fan of Garth Ennis and have been for a long time. I'm also firmly convinced he's the best current writer of war comics and that he's well worthy of being mentioned along with such greats as Harvey Kurtzman, Archie Goodwin and Pat Mills.  Here, Ennis and Russ Braun give us a look at the Russian female pilots that were dubbed The Night Witches by their Nazi adversaries. The story is told through the eyes of Anna Kharkova, a young pilot and follows her through the war in the South, to Poland and ultimately to the dark days after the war of Stalinist purges. Obviously this is fictionalized. And Ennis is writing for a largely American audience of comic book readers. I don't know the actual history here well enough to call him out about inaccuracies or to praise him for historical accuracy. And that's really the point. Ennis is giving his audience something that they likely don't know much or anything about. I'm pretty well versed in the history of World War II. But I can honestly say that I knew nothing about the Night Witches before reading this work. Which may say something American's failure to appreciate the Soviet Union's part in the second World War.  So while I find this to be a very well done comic, with fabulous art by Braun, it also can act as a jumping off point to look at some portions of history that not everyone has explored.  My thanks to Net Galley, the publisher and the author for a preview copy in exchange for my reviews.
022	The_Night_Witches	"""Undetected, unexpected / Wings of glory, Tell their story / Aviation, deviation / Undetected, Stealth perfected"" Sabaton, Night Witches.  I was quite excited when I started the reading of The Night Witches. I already know the exploits of this all-female Soviet airplane regiment during World War 2, so I can say I know what I could like from this opera. I was not disappointed. The history follows our Heroine, Anna Kharkova, from her humble beginning in an obsolete airplane till the end of the war and beyond, to my surprise. The character development is really well done, not only for the main character but also for all the other cast, from the first to the last. Even more, I like the approach the author chose for the most ""technical parts"", such as airplane's name and tactics. These are explained in a simple way, accessible to people who are unfamiliar with these technicalities while still enjoying for airplane enthusiast (like myself). While the colouring is good (stark contrasts, muddy palette and so on), I'm not very sure about the drawing. Don' get me wrong, is a superb job (I know the struggle of Graphic novelists), but I did not quite like some parts (especially some of the more crowded panels with lots of planes and some characters faces). What I did not like tough was the first part of the opera, with the costant shifting between the Soviet and German perspective. While it has its use for the narration, I find the implementation a little confusing, like it was a completely different Graphic Novel. So, Shall I recommend it? Well, I can't for my classroom (the entire Opera deals with really mature subject, togheter with some strong visual), but it's still a really good opera. I could even see it adapted for a Hollywood movie, it will be awesome!"
023	The_Night_Witches	“Who coins the name is a mystery. Night Witches. And we are children, lost in the woods.”  Iam not much of a history buff so the topic of the graphic novel wasn’t one I happened to be intimate with. The Night Witches was what the Germans called the all female Soviet bomber squadron during World War II. The graphic novel’s main character, Anna Borisnova Kharkova, was a member of this squad.  At first glance, the cover is quite striking. This was what drew me in initially. The second was that the writer was Garth Ennis. As an on-again-off-again comic book reader, his name was not unfamiliar to me. I’m a fan of some of his other works although I was not aware he wrote several history related graphic novels as well. Of course, a comic isn’t quite a comic without its artist and Russ Braun did a fantastic job with this one.  War is brutal—it’s something that should not be forgotten. This graphic novel did not sugarcoat it; as well it shouldn’t. It is bloody and graphic and depressing. But it tells a story based in history that is not so well known and presents it in a way that may be easier to consume than say a textbook. While the comic’s novels are not real people, the point is more that the story itself is not too far from the truth.  I found that Ennis’ afterword to be very insightful. It was actually one of my favorite parts of the entire volume. A peek at his research and his decisions in the story. I love hearing about an author’s process in any way.  Thank you to NetGalley and Dead Reckoning for the free copy in exchange for an honest review.
024	The_Night_Witches	"Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher for providing a copy for review.  I don't usually write reviews for graphic novels, but here we go. First off I love the subject of this graphic novel. The Night Witches were a badass group of Russian women during WW2 that joined the fight, became fighter pilots, and terrorized the hell out of Germany. These women were insanely brave. They had old fighter planes so in order to avoid early detection they had to CUT THE ENGINES, glide into position, drop bombs, and then hightail it out before they were shot down. When all this was done Russia was all ""Thanks, but also don't talk about this."" These women are highly decorated veterans, and there is little to no attention paid to them. The authors did a great job of telling their story through characters loosely based on actual women.  The Night Witches follows. the rise and fall of Anna Kharkova. She joins up as a teenager, and quickly rises through the ranks. The authors do a great job of showing the camaraderie between the women, and their fight to be recognized. I liked the way they showed Anna go from a naive teen, to a battle scarred woman. The artwork is just amazing. I also liked that at the end they included a lot of their research and just more information on these women. I absolutely loved this, and if you have any interest in WW2, or the premise of women fighter pilots I definitely recommend picking this up."
025	The_Night_Witches	Set in World War 2 and following a group of female aviators who fly at night. This story highlights the sexism and oppressiveness of that era on women and the assumption that women will 'just get in the way' in times of war.  Prior to reading this, I wasn't aware of the Night Witches and I found this story informative and now have an awareness and respect for what these women did and how they contributed to the fight against the Nazis.  The dialogue in the beginning felt a bit clunky and disjointed, but quickly improved as the story progressed.  This comic does a great job of translating the seriousness and stark reality of war. It pulls no punches when it comes to the artwork which is brutal, violent and gory and what you would expect for a graphic novel featuring WWII. It reveals a truth that war breeds hatred and violence.  This comic really champions these women and what they had to endure as women in the soviet union during this time. I found it very educational, emotional and it has stayed with me and I think changed my perspective.  I would definitely recommend this graphic novel and give it 3 and a half stars.
026	The_Night_Witches	"I think this was pretty good, but I also think that a comic format just wasn't the right choice for how this story was told. There's just so much going on here and so much history to get through. I get what Ennis was trying to do and I appreciate him trying to do it, but I also wish he just stuck to a single story-line rather than try to write a fictitious autobiography. And I think he somewhat understood this because he included a pretty long essay at the end of the comic explaining why he did what he did, but I dunno.  I did like it though, and it was entertaining and hard to read and pretty accurate.  The Night Witches were fucking badasses and I wish more people knew about them. When I first learned about them in college (yeah, I took a bunch of Japanese and Russian history classes), I couldn't believe I'd never heard of them before.  Seriously, though, if the Russians weren't on ""our"" side during WWII, we woulda been fuuuuuucked big time. Thank god that they saw comrades as both men and women and allowed women to fight during this war."
027	The_Night_Witches	I can’t believe the audacity of this book. If you want to read about the Night Witches and the missions they went on and the feats they accomplished, look elsewhere. The narrator of this story is a Nazi, and there are multiple scenes of Nazis torturing a Night Witch who was captured. There are more scenes of men talking crap about the Night Witches amongst themselves than there are scenes of the actual Night Witches. The only thing I came away with from this story was that everyone hated the Night Witches and disrespected them constantly, even their own comrades. Terrible experience, would not recommend 0/10000000000000
028	The_Night_Witches	In SummaryThe Night Witches is the fictional account of a female Soviet pilot during World War II. This book is not fodder for the lighthearted; it’s graphic in its depiction of World War II atrocities and the brutalities of the Soviet government. While the conclusion is improbable, the first two-thirds of the book is grounded in actual events and pays tribute to women’s achievements in the face of discrimination and incompetent leadership.The ReviewHistory, and war chronicles in particular, tend to omit or diminish the contributions of women. In recent years, there’s been a push to bring to light the forgotten stories of women in the military. Thus, we have The Night Witches, a graphic novel about female Soviet pilots who fought the Germans in World War II. The Night Witches, as Dead Reckoning Press presents it, is a collection of three 3-chapter graphic novels, all of which focus on the Soviet pilot Anna Kharkova. Like many historical works set to this era, Anna’s experiences aren’t based off those of a single person but are a compilation of the exploits of several individuals.A word of warning. The Night Witches has no rating, but it is definitely in the 18+ category. The creators have not shied from showing war’s awfulness, so the pages contain graphic depictions of violence, disembowelment, and rape.And a slightly different word of caution. The graphic novel offers no background for what’s happening. It simply begins with a German squad inside Russian borders, and Anna and her fellow female newbies arriving on a Soviet air base. Except for a couple date stamps, the text is entirely dialogue with a bit of internal monologue. Meaning we are limited to the knowledge and viewpoints of the characters. Thus, readers are expected to know who’s invading whom, the toll to date, and the political and social forces at work as a matter of course. They’re also expected to know war slang as well as weapons by nickname and name, and only rarely does the narrative hint at the broader scope of the conflict.In short, if you’re not a World War II nerd, this graphic novel probably isn’t the best place to start learning about Soviet female pilots. However, if you’ve got at least some history under your belt, The Night Witches will bring to light lesser-known facets on historical events.The first of the three works, The Night Witches, focuses on the parallel journeys of two new recruits, the German infantryman Kurt Graf and the Russian pilot Anna Kharkova. Although the two don’t meet until the third chapter, they’re constantly interacting throughout as Anna’s bomber regiment is tasked with harassing the German forces of which Kurt’s squad is a part. On Anna’s side, the creators do a pretty good job depicting the prejudices against the women and how their ingenuity allows them to hold their own despite their woefully obsolete equipment. The storytelling’s much more muddled on Kurt’s side. His squad members are introduced as a lengthy list of names applied to an indistinguishable group of men. When Kurt interacts with squad individuals during the story’s progression, I can’t recall who’s who. But while the German cast’s confusing and largely forgettable, the horrors and atrocities Kurt witnesses are not.The second work, Motherland, begins with a now battle-hardened Anna transferring from her bomber unit to a fighter squad just before the Battle of Kursk. The Soviet strategy boils down to throwing soldiers at the Germans to overwhelm them by numbers, and that’s clearly illustrated by the pitifully young and untrained pilots assigned to Anna and the arrogant commissars who bear no compunction about sending poorly equipped soldiers to certain death. There is a lot of discussion about different aircraft in this arc, and because my knowledge of German and Russian planes is nil, most of this went over my head. Additionally, action in the massive ambush on Anna’s squad is very difficult to follow, although the illustrations do convey the battle’s epic scope.The final installment, The Fall and Rise of Anna Kharkova, “lacks any direct historical precedent” (as admitted by the writer), and the latter half of its third chapter “very nearly qualifies as fantasy.” Although individual Russians certainly suffered as prisoners of war, stood before counterintelligence tribunals, supported North Koreans in the Korean War, and got condemned to punishment camps, it’s highly unlikely anyone experienced them all. In addition, Anna’s final ploy, though inspiring, is beyond the realm of possibility. What these chapters do illustrate, however, is the Soviet Union’s post-war activities and the evolution of their aircraft technology.While I appreciate how this book celebrates the achievements of women in World War II and the Soviet Union, I wasn’t enamored of Anna as a heroine. She is depicted as big chested and adorably petite, and she’s the sole blonde among a cast of drab women. She winds up lover to her superior officer in The Night Witches, similarly catches the eye of her superior officer in Motherland, and despite suffering multiple injuries in a crash behind enemy lines, charms the guy attending her in the POW hospital with her beauty. (And none of these supposedly romantic encounters have the least bit of chemistry.) Having this Barbie doll as the female elite of elites makes her less a figure of inspiration for young girls and more of a male fantasy.Extras include Afterword and a collection of sketches.For more manga and book reviews, drop by my blog Keeping It In Canon!
029	The_Night_Witches	I read this thinking about getting it at work; I don't know what I think about that. Part of the content I enjoyed; this is a subject that a lot of Westerners know little about, and I thought the way the story was presented was interesting. Down sides: a LOT of language, a scene where a gang rape has obviously occurred, and for some bizarre reason, the central character has giant boobs. I mean, I know men who do graphic novels love to draw giant boobs, but I didn't realize this applied to historical stories as well as superheroes. LOL. 
030	The_Night_Witches	Loved it! Not a fan of war stories but this was a very unique perspective on WWII. I really fell in love with the imperfect but total bad ass main character, Anna. Warning this gets pretty graphic, but it does a great job illustrating (pun intended) the horrors of war.
031	The_Night_Witches	I am a fan of Ennis's work and while I think this was meant earnestly it missed the mark in some key ways. And to get it out of the way, this is from the time period in WWII where the Soviets and the Nazis were in conflict so yes there is tons of violence and rape (though I would argue that one added not much to this)  Our main point of view characters is Anna Kharkova, one of the female pilots who were known as the Night Witches because they would strike at the Germans in the middle in the night in substandard planes (basically this was a desperation move, not that the Soviets were ahead of their time for women's rights). The first 'book' is every other chapter her and that of a German soldier which I think was there to underline how nasty the Nazis were including being forced to (or wanting to) gang rape any female prisoners and this guy didn't want to. Honestly we didn't need his point of view. It ends with the first book and I don't think we needed on page rape scenes to hit it home Nazis were bad (then again watching the revisionist history going on right now....)  Anna is a tough character. She is determined and after a life changing event with her and another of her pilot friends, she becomes hardened and down right unlikable but I didn't mind that so much because it made sense with her level of PTSD  What bothered me most was there was no need to extend this beyond the war or at least as far as this went, which was far into the 50s and beyond as even the Soviets were hiding away what these women had done, not letting their names make into the history books. It seemed like an excuse to disenfranchise Anna more.  The other thing I didn't like much was the constant need to pair her up with some higher ranking male as a lover. It's weird. I am all for sex positive females but I think it's the way it's done that is the problem for me. In this is seemed more like whelp we need naked women in this somehow...  I appreciate someone trying to work to bring this time period into focus as these women have long been denied their rightful place in history. This sort of does it okay. The art, however, is phenomenal. 
032	The_Night_Witches	I was really excited to read this because of the description of strong women leads. Well, to put it mildly I was disappointed. The majority of the women are shown as inept and subservient, and the main character is hyper sexualized and sleeps with all of her commanders. You can tell these women were written by a man. Artwork is beautiful and an interesting perspective on WW2 however so some redeeming qualities. 
033	The_Night_Witches	Night Witches was really good, but far more intense than I had expected. In some ways, that's what made it so good, but I don't think I would have grabbed it from the shelf right now had I realized. Quite a few pages made my heart ache in sadness and horror. The book ended with a write up of what was needed on reality (with great detail) and what was pure fiction, and I found this really excellent.
034	The_Night_Witches	I'm sorry it didn't work for some. It's a comic & I liked it. We don't hear the story of how Russia suffered during that war nearly enough; we (USA) might have done better, and been better comrades, during and after. We need those heroic stories; maybe this will introduce these stories to a new generation.
035	The_Night_Witches	This was a decent read, but very choppy. I am not really sure what the point of the story was, let alone what I was supposed to get from it. I liked what I understood, but still feel like there was a lot left out. 
036	The_Night_Witches	This is absolutely a story that needs to be told, unfortunately this is a highly fictionalized story. It’s hard to get through at times because it seems overly sappy. The realism in it never really comes through, though it tries… 
037	The_Night_Witches	A fictionalize version of a piece of history I had not heard of until recently. Interesting.
038	The_Night_Witches	Too much fiction. While the main character is partially a composite of many different Soviet women, some of the story was entirely fabricated. 
039	The_Night_Witches	Note: I accessed a digital review copy of this book through Edelweiss.
040	The_Night_Witches	This is great example of a book where you need to all the words. There is a reason that authors put introductions, forwards, and/or afterwords in books, or add them over editions. 
041	The_Night_Witches	Fantastic. Great story, beautifully drawn, awesome in every way.
042	The_Night_Witches	i wanna learn more about the real history of this
043	The_Night_Witches	Fantastic one-shot!
044	The_Night_Witches	A new perspective on WWII. Fascinating brief story of the female Russian flying fighters. Awe inspiring.
046	The_Night_Witches	Starts slowly but has some dark bits that I loved.
047	The_Night_Witches	To me, Garth Ennis' war comics have always been a little hit and miss. They have a certain dynamism and narrative drive, of course, but his shtick, of trying to force a full drama out of a mere incident of war (if you can call what is often a real soldier's experience an incident) doesn't always provide for a brilliant read. This is close to brilliant, however. And the fact that the series does have one lead character yet can hang on the wider image, of female Soviet air force pilots, means we see a story with greater novelty and import. The book contains a trilogy of more-or-less stand-alone three-parters, but all come with a clearness that is provided by both the wonderful art, and the crisper, more concise end of Ennis' output.  We start by contrasting a lowly Nazi foot soldier with the rise and rise of the prime ace pilot, and the convergence of their stories is only let down by the regular jarring change of scene, from dingy basement to sunny air strip, and the jumps in timeline as we speed through the year. The second series seems of shorter duration, as she takes on flying solo in fighters. We also see another benefit to us from her gender – the fact that the stories can show loneliness, and potential sexual comfort, in combatants that are part of a military machine, churning out younger and younger victims ready for the mincer. The final parts are a bit woollier – putting too many political comments into people's mouths, and giving an almost nihilistic ending, just to prove the author's point of nobody coming out of the war on a side able to shower themselves in glory. But before then, at least, we have had a fine time in the company of this Witch, and the book has done what it wants in both education and entertainment.
048	The_Night_Witches	Though this is a work of fiction, Garth Ennis bases this story on real-life women who fought for their country during WWII. The Night Witches were a group of female pilots who flew old airplanes to drop bombs on the Nazis. Because of how loud the old planes' engines were, they developed a technique of cutting the engines and gliding over to their targets before they dropped the bombs. It is unclear how successful these techniques really were but it did keep the enemies awake and on their toes.  This is a collection of three stories, Nightwitches, Motherland, and The Rise and Fall of Anna Kharkova, about a Russian aviator named Anna Kharkova. This is a grity and dark graphic novel filled with war, rape, death, heartache and PTSD. This was a fascinating piece of history that was also heartbreaking. While this is fiction, this graphic novel shows what these women really went through and the fears they faced.  Ennis also provides historical background on these scenes at the end so be sure to read that for further information. I recommend this graphic novel if you are a fan of military history, aviation, or interested in learning about women during wartime. I am not a fan of any of this but I do like to learn more about women’s impact throughout history and comics in general, which is why I picked this up.  Reader Warning: -Sexual Assault -Nudity -Gory and graphic scenes -Death  *ARC provided by Netgalley for an honest review.*  This review was originally posted at Red-Haired Ash Reads.
049	The_Night_Witches	 Huge thank you to NetGalley and Naval Institute Press for the digital review copy!  If you like your graphic novels/comics long and full of history, have I got a recommendation for you! The Night Witches is a graphic history of one of the most fascinating groups in World War II, the Russian lady pilots who flew clunkers of bombers at night with no guides against the Nazis. I have read more than one historical fiction book about them, and it was super cool to see the story unfold through some really stellar artwork.  The book is broken up into three parts and follows pilot Lieutenant Anna Kharkova from her early days of flying to a Nazi POW camp, a tribunal and demotion, and a a long stay in a Gulag. Ann goes through more in these pages than many people could endure in several lifetimes. Despite everything the Motherland puts her through, she never waivers in her patriotism and ultimately just wants to fly and serve her country. Unfortunately, most men are not fans of women doing “men’s work.”  This is not a fun, light comic. War is hell, and many of the characters you may become attached to die. Anna goes through horrific situations, and trigger warning for rape and attempted forced rape (one Nazi soldier tries to force another soldier to rape a woman after she has already been repeatedly raped). It’s not a light subject, so I definitely want to warn you.  I took my time with this one, partly because it’s a sizeable book, and partly because I didn’t want to fly through it. An issue or two per night gave me a chance to really appreciate both the story and the art. It’s out now, so definitely keep it on your radar if you’re a history buff.
050	The_Night_Witches	Huge thank you to NetGalley and Naval Institute Press for the digital review copy!  If you like your graphic novels/comics long and full of history, have I got a recommendation for you! The Night Witches is a graphic history of one of the most fascinating groups in World War II, the Russian lady pilots who flew clunkers of bombers at night with no guides against the Nazis. I have read more than one historical fiction book about them, and it was super cool to see the story unfold through some really stellar artwork.  The book is broken up into three parts and follows pilot Lieutenant Anna Kharkova from her early days of flying to a Nazi POW camp, a tribunal and demotion, and a a long stay in a Gulag. Ann goes through more in these pages than many people could endure in several lifetimes. Despite everything the Motherland puts her through, she never waivers in her patriotism and ultimately just wants to fly and serve her country. Unfortunately, most men are not fans of women doing “men’s work.”  This is not a fun, light comic. War is hell, and many of the characters you may become attached to die. Anna goes through horrific situations, and trigger warning for rape and attempted forced rape (one Nazi soldier tries to force another soldier to rape a woman after she has already been repeatedly raped). It’s not a light subject, so I definitely want to warn you.  I took my time with this one, partly because it’s a sizeable book, and partly because I didn’t want to fly through it. An issue or two per night gave me a chance to really appreciate both the story and the art. It’s out now, so definitely keep it on your radar if you’re a history buff.
051	The_Night_Witches	"Anna Kharkova is a new recruit to a newly formed aerial unit in the Soviet Union during World War II. The unit is all female and will be flying night missions against the Nazi invaders. They fly bi-planes, which are hopelessly out of date. On their first night raid, the Germans hear them coming and are ready to fire flak before the planes are even near the target. Anna tries cutting the engines a few kilometers out and coasting in. The strategy works much better. The unit gets a reputation among the Germans as the Nacht Hexen or Night Witches.  She works her way up to flying with other men and training a new set of female recruits. Eventually her plane is shot down, leading to capture behind enemy lines. She's shipped off to a POW camp. When the camp is liberated, she is taken back to the Motherland where she's accused of being a traitor. She made no effort to escape, which apparently is considered a betrayal of the motherland. She is shipped off to Siberia where she finally does her ""patriotic"" duty and escapes the prison camp.  While the story is interesting, there are a lot of odd elements. For some reason, the German baddies use a lot of British colloquialisms--is that supposed to make them seem more bad? The story starts out very pro-Soviet (which is understandable in the story context) and then turns completely against the Communist government. One or two side plots are thrown in that don't really advance the story.  For an unusual and forgotten topic, this has surprisingly average execution.  Slightly recommended."
052	The_Night_Witches	"Historical fiction about a young Russian teen who becomes hardened as one of the famous Night Witches, told in graphic novel format.  Divided into three sections that correlate with the wartime experiences of Lt. Anna Borisnova Kharkova, this is a fascinating peek into what it might have been like for the young women known as the ""Nacht Hexen"" (or Night Witches) during World War II and after. Realistic scenes of horror in combat, physical abuse, and rape are shown alongside camaraderie, patriotism, and love. Anna is well fleshed out, growing from a naive young woman into a hardened soldier who was shot down twice, survived life-threatening injuries, a POW camp and a gulag. The team of Ennis (author), Russ Braun (penciling), Tony Avina (coloring), and Simon Bowland (lettering) have created a must-read book. The artwork is outstanding -- sharp, high quality, and beautiful. Extensive author notes in the back make clear to readers how Ennis developed Anna's character and documents the events of the book. The only fault I found in the book is the ending is a little over the top.  This is appropriate for mature high school students through adults. Be advised of graphic violence, sex, and course language found throughout the book, including vivid depictions of rape, bombings and shootings. Librarians are recommended to buy accordingly.  Excellent storytelling and a history lesson to boot!  "
053	The_Night_Witches	Thank you to NetGalley, Garth Ennis, and Russ Braun, for the opportunity to review this excellent book.  The Night Witches is a combination of 3 related stories, of a fictional Soviet female combat pilot during World War 2 and the Korean War. The book follows the primary character through a series of combat deployments, including harsh treatment by friends and foes alike, showing how war dehumanizes the best of people. The book continues to follow the pilot after being shot down twice, being captured twice, and being imprisoned by both the Germans and then her own people.  There are some scenes that are brutal and graphically violent, even for comics, but given the subject matter, I felt the author/artists did an excellent job, as it was not gratuitous. Murder and rape happen in peacetime and in war, and can be directed at friend and foe alike. This is not a comic for less than teenagers in my opinion, due to the graphic displays of violence and sexual assault, but I believe teenagers and adults should be able to handle the content. The violence and sexual content have points and purposes within the plot line, and are important to the narrative, and are not included simply to sensationalize that content.  I highly recommend this graphic novel be added to your collection!
054	The_Night_Witches	The Night Witches is a graphic novel about a pilot assigned to an all female squadron in the Soviet Union during WWII. I did know a little about the Night Witches prior to reading this, because I’m a huge history buff, but I’m not a fan of graphic novels, so this was an interesting choice for me.  The story was really three smaller novellas (is that the correct term for a graphic novel?) put together. Anna is the main character and we follow her through the three stories. I enjoyed seeing Anna grow as a character through the stories, from starry-eyed teenager who is ready to die for the Motherland to a bitter soldier who has seen too much death and destruction. While the three were natural continuations of each other, they do cover a lot of time so you honestly don’t get to know a lot of the other characters in the book.  There’s a lot to digest. The author even adds a chapter at the end with a more detailed history of the Night Witches and some of his research. This is definitely for adults. There is lot of language, graphic violence and blood, so be warned. The artwork is amazing.  If you are interested in learning about the Night Witches or WWII history, I’d definitely recommend this. I am going to look for the other graphic novels by Mr. Ennis.  Thank you to Netgalley, the publishers and the author for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
055	The_Night_Witches	CW: rape & graphic on page violence  I am disappointed in this factionalized telling of the incredible heroics of the Russian Night Witches and the havoc they wreaked in German troops during WWII.  I understand using graphics as a medium to tell a powerful story, as well as fictionalized versions of history to portray emotion, but this one fell short. I debated giving this book another star, and maybe I’ll come back and do so, but at this point, I’m not sure what the author was hoping to gain by portraying his female protagonist as a sex-driven-rule-breaking vixen...seems antithetical to telling a story about brave women.  The violence I get. It’s a brutal war story. I didn’t like it, but it makes sense. WWII was brutal. The language, I get. Fighting battles during WWII would make me swear like that too. But something was off here. I wonder if the author would’ve been female...  Or maybe intended audience...?  I’ve got to sit with this one awhile.
056	The_Night_Witches	As World War 2 continues Germany invades Russia, a new squadron arrives at a Russian Air Force base. They are Russian female pilots and navigators. The men at the Air Force base think that they should not be there. The females pilots was bomb at night using old biplanes. They follow orders and risked their lives. The main character Anna Kharkova does not give into her fears as she loves flying regardless of the danger of being hit by the Germans. Her unit does so much damage to German equipment that the Germans called them “Night Witches.” Anna turns up everywhere from the Battle of Kursk to the edge of the Korean War. Anna ends up in two different prison camps. Will she survive the prison camps?  A good look at what life was like Russian female soldiers especially pilots. It shows a part of history that is true even though Anna is a make believe character. I was amazed that Russia had women fighting in World War 2. There is an excellent “Afterword” at the of this graphic novel. It is thought-provoking as well as a good story.  Disclaimer: I received an arc of this book from the author/publisher from Netgalley. I wasn’t obligated to write a favorable review or any review at all. The opinions expressed are strictly my own.
057	The_Night_Witches	'The Night Witches' by Garth Ennis with art by Russ Braun is a collection of the 3 Night Witch story from Garth Ennis' Battlefields, and follows one Russian pilot for one heck of a story arc.  The Night Witches were Russian women who flew in combat against Germany in the fight to defend their homeland. They flew obsolete biplanes on bombing runs. This story is the fictional story of Anna Kharkova, a pilot with the Night Witches, women who were terrified to crash behind enemy lines. The second story 'Motherland' puts Anna in to the Battle of Kursk with it's high casualty rate. Anna's fate is revealed in the final story.  This is solid storytelling, and this is a well written character. I even approve of the ending, though I know it's not realistic. I wanted this ending for Anna. The art is great. Along with a sketchbook, there is a nice essay about the real events that inspired the story.  I received a review copy of this graphic novel from Naval Institute Press and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Thank you for allowing me to review this graphic novel.
058	The_Night_Witches	This graphic novel started off as realistic historical fiction, and although it was more violently graphic than I was initially expecting, I was enjoying it. The text and art worked incredibly well together to tell an intense story. I really appreciated the focus on the women's ingenuity in their flights and the acknowledgement of their skill. The description of both the positives and negatives seemed realistic and in line with other sources I've read about Russian women's experience in WWII. However, as the story went on, I was slightly disappointed to see it moving slowly away from the historical record. I can appreciate the direction that Anna's story took, but I feel there was even greater potential in sharing a story that stayed in line with historical fact. The afterword did provide a clear explanation of the aspects that were historical and those that were creative fiction.  * I received an electronic copy of this book through NetGalley for an honest review.
059	The_Night_Witches	The Night Witches is an unexpectedly dark and powerful examination of World War II from a female Soviet pilot's perspective. The book is broken up into three sections, each uniquely compelling and grim. And I really do mean grim. Rape, torture, death, POW camps, and general Soviet and Nazi viciousness are almost always present.  Garth Ennis is careful to intersperse this terror on the ground with the soaring feeling that Anna Kharkova, the lead Night Witch, experiences in the air, even during combat. Anna is a character without a real background, but you quickly grow to care for her and wish her the best even though she's trapped in a cruel Soviet regime. The Night Witches affected me far more than I expected, particularly as the extensive afterword revealed the truth behind the stories.
060	The_Night_Witches	"""Night Witches"" was a World War II German nickname for the all-female military aviators of the 588th Night Bomber Regiment of the Soviet Air Forces. They were given the worst planes and equipment, but even still, made a name for themselves for their bravery and skill. That was all I knew about the daring aviators before starting The Night Witches, but I think Ennis and Braun succeeded in giving a more personalized in this albeit fictional account. I loved the attention to detail in the artwork and the respect for historical accuracy for most of the tale. It was an enjoyable and enlightening tale, and I especially liked the afterword which discussed the historical context and which liberties were taken. I would definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in reading about some brave women from history!"
061	The_Night_Witches	This graphic novel presents the story of The Night Witches through the lens of a fictional character, Anna.  At first, I was excited to get a graphic novel about The Night Witches. If you check out that Wikipedia entry, you can see they were awesome. But then, I see the main character is fictional and I felt immediate disappointment. Call me petty but I didn't want characters based on the real women, I wanted the real women. Irena may have some dramatizations but Irena existed. But I give it the benefit of the doubt and read it.   Oof...  I didn't even like Anna, everything felt so forced - including all the random sex scenes -  the villains feel over the top, and the art style didn't click with me at all. I could tell there was an effort but, it all felt sour at the end. If anything, hopefully, this will get people curious enough to do further reading. 2 out of 5.
062	The_Night_Witches	The Night Witches by Garth Ennis, Russ Braun, et. al. is a free NetGalley e-comicbook that I read in late March.  A volume-sized graphic novel of three parts, the lines of buildings, gunshot trajectory, and smoke whorls are practically embedded deep into each page. Shadows lie within the crags of faces and the billow of tan uniform fabric. Blood is depicted as stringy and spattery from its point of impact, planes are expressed as smooth green gak, and bomb and gun muzzle explosions are bright orange, fuzzy, paintball splats; then the perspective of German infantry soldiers on the ground (within environs of bombed cities and polar hills) alternates with the Russian female regiment in the air (during their training and the buzzy heat of battle).
063	The_Night_Witches	CW rape  Interesting graphic novel. Fictionalization of the life of a Soviet female fighter pilot.  Beginning in WWII and ending during the 1960's Cold War, this novel follows the life of Anna Borisnova Kharkova. First in a group of female fighters known by the Nazis as the Night Witches, Anna's life is one of constantly fighting not just the enemy but the misogyny of the military and political elites and the vagaries and brutality of the Communist Party in the USSR. Never one to take orders well, Kharkova eventually finds herself relegated to a gulag.  **I received this book from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.**
064	The_Night_Witches	Anyone who has studied the history of world war 2 knows that Russia did all the heavy lifting and serious fighting and we in America kinda swooped in and took credit. I am sure there are thousands upon thousands of stories that could be told about the Eastern Front, so I was not surprised that I had never heard this story. It was a well told story and very captivating. Not too heavy handed on the female empowerment but just right. Amazing 
065	The_Night_Witches	Not your usual WWII war story (suomeksi: ei todellakaan mikään Ilmojen korkeajännitys)! Inspired by actual history the graphic novel presents a less known side of the war on the Eastern front. Some of the characters feel like they are there just to support the protagonist. The art is quite good, if a bit too digitally finished.  As a Finn seeing Soviets as the heroes is always a bit jarring but then again this story wasn't about the Soviet attack on Finland.
066	The_Night_Witches	Amazing storytelling in war comics; even better with Ennis' process essay as an afterward, sort of like Bernard Cornwell's short essays at end of his novels, spelling out how much is truth and how much is fiction. Russ Braun rocks the art. Thanks to Dead Reckoning / Naval Institute Press for this fine collected edition.
067	The_Night_Witches	A graphic novel in three disjointed segments, The Night Witches follows a fictional character that dramatizes real historical events. The art was well done, and overall it was not a bad read. I think I would have enjoyed it more if it were a cohesive story. Highly recommend for fans of modern history, war dramatization, and WW2 narratives.
068	The_Night_Witches	Great story and illustrations. I love the history of the Night Witches and was excited to see material in graphic novel format. Unfortunately, I don't feel as if I can add it to my middle school collection due to the excessive number of f-bombs. I understand, though, when you are in a wartime situation they are often called for.
069	The_Night_Witches	While I liked the historical element, the writing and artwork lacked what I've come to expect from the Garth Ennis work I've read so far. Also, the amalgamated characters, lack of some historical context, and jumps in later plot points threw me off trying to piece things together. (e-galley from NetGalley)
070	The_Night_Witches	I think everything is does a pretty good job of creating a narrative for a unrecognized historic group of women, Russian pilots in World War II. Perhaps in the US we could use more stories of history that is not our own. The art has a gritty realism but makes the characters memorable. I would put this at Older Teen to Adult. Public and academic libraries. Thank you for the review copy.
071	The_Night_Witches	Female badass pilots ! What’s not to like? I enjoyed the autobiographical approach to the comic, it was dynamic and engaging , but at times lacked flow. Beautifully illustrated and gorgeously coloured.
072	The_Night_Witches	Great graphic historical novel about female Soviet flyers bombing advancing German army units in night raids in obsolete biplanes. An afterword provides historical context about Soviet women pilots who served during Wolrd War II.
073	The_Night_Witches	"Ok, that was different. We read this for my book club. It was my first graphic novel. It was a very quick read, and provided a bit of history about which I was not aware. This type of format is not for everyone. For me, it was ""meh""."
074	The_Night_Witches	Great main character with a really satisfying arc. I really enjoyed the scope of the story being much larger than I expected it to be, as well as it being a considerable step up in writing compared to Stringbags.
075	The_Night_Witches	As a historian I have long been fascinated by the Night Witches, and this book does them justice. Both the illustrations and the three women’s stories are powerful and compelling. Highly recommend.
076	The_Night_Witches	Nobody does war stories like Garth Ennis. Period!
077	The_Night_Witches	I appreciate the extensive author’s notes at the end.
079	The_Night_Witches	Sometimes hard to follow the action. Ending felt right. 
080	The_Night_Witches	Thought it did a good job portraying the difficulties of war but character development seemed overly simplistic and choppy.
081	The_Night_Witches	Interesting historically. I think I would have enjoyed a long essay about these women more. :-) Didn't like the ending section where it was more fantasy. 
082	The_Night_Witches	phenomenal 
083	The_Night_Witches	Not sure what I expected. Tad bloody. Interesting story. 
084	The_Night_Witches	Fascinating historical fiction about Russian women pilots in WWII.
085	The_Night_Witches	Great art and a compelling story being told. Definitely enjoyed my time with this one.
086	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Another great World War II-related material that narrates about the crimes of the Nazi German. The story is about the Spanish photographer, Francisco Boix, who is a prisoner of war by the Germans in Mauthausen. He was first assigned in the quarry as a way to exterminate him just like the others. Luckily, he was later moved to the identification department of the camp.   Being a photographer for the German Army means developing photos of the soldiers and their families, which will be sent back home to their loved ones. Another task for them is to photograph and identify the prisoners when they arrived. Some photos also capture fake condition of the prisoners such as that they are healthy, well fed, and happy. These photos were used as a propaganda to deceive people that the camps were safe and that the prisoners lived well. The pictures were also used in the brochures to be sent to factories and quarries because the prisoners were offered as slave laborers.   When a prisoner died, a photo was taken and preserved in the Nazi Archives. As for illegal executions, another photo was taken in the art form to elevate death and that was what Francisco found out while being in the aforementioned department in the camp.   All the atrocities that the Nazi German's did such as throwing prisoners off the cliff; escape attempts when in reality they were pushed or forced themselves into the electrified fences; prisoners beaten to death, shot in the back of the head, hanging themselves; and experimentation by the doctors pushed Francisco that he wants the whole world to know what's is really happening.   After reading this graphic novel, I searched for Francisco Boix's photographs and looking at them are remarkably shocking and terrifying, most particularly the photo of the man that was hanged using a belt. Reading the cruel acts performed during the WWII was already horrifying, what more if people could see the photos that captured them.   The Photographer of Mauthausen is a must-read for those who are into reading anything about the WWII. The story of Francisco Boix and his perseverance and bravery is truly admirable and that should be set as an example to all.
087	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Francisco Boix was a Spanish Communist who fled to France and then with the invasion of Germany was sent to Mauthausen (by France) as a political prisoner. Once a journalist/photographer, Boix managed you become the assistant to the Nazi photographer Paul Ricken, asssigned to 1) take pictures of happy Nazis to send to their families; 2) to illustrate how pleasant and healthy this stage 3 (extermination only) Austrian Nazi concentration camp, ansd 3) in the way of the KKK’s documentation of the hanging of black men by white nationalists throughout the twentieth century, the camp was directed to keep records of those killed. Some were set up as lies, fake suicides and so on, but some were proud records of what the Nazi campaign was intended to do: Murder millions of people.  Ricken, as one might imagine all of the Nazis involved in this horritif extewrmination process, was a former professor obsessed with his own imagine role in preserving Nazi glory, and eternal fam as an artist of Death.  Boix managed to smuggle out thousands of negatives, though only a fraction of them survived, enough to convict (at the Nuremberg trials where Boix testified) one officer and make it clear atrocities were committed there by cruel and badly misled soldiers. Boix, betrayed by his own Spain, then France, was later betrayed at his release from Mauthousen by Stalin and the Communist Party, who insanely insisted the Spanish communists should have died for their cause in the camps. This is a great and inspirational story to pair with Art Spiegelman’s Maus. I recalled nothing of this story--the confinement and murder of Spanish communists--so am glad to have the horrible memory preserved. Use those cameras for justice, as Pedro Columo and his team use their fine illustration work!
088	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	The true story of Francisco Boix, a Spanish exile and WWII prisoner of war, sent to the concentration camp of Mauthausen. There he was assigned as the assistant to the Nazi photographer assigned to take pictures documenting how prisoners died. At great personal risk, Francisco came up with a plan to hide the negatives of these atrocities until after the war when the Nazis could be brought to justice. It's a harsh reminder of what man is capable of. Columbo's art captures this very well.  Received a review copy from Dead Reckoning and Edelweiss. All thoughts are my own and in no way influenced by the aforementioned.
089	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Thank you to the publisher for a copy ofThis book via netgalley!Simple yet so powerful. True heroes don’t wear capes. They risk their own lives to have others see the truth. Let their stories be told. The very least we can do for the sacrifices they made. A must read!
091	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Disclaimer: Arc via Netgalley  Francisco Boix was a Spanish Communist who fled to France and then with the invasion of Germany was sent to Mauthausen as a political prisoner. His photographs that he hid in Mauthausen, at great risk to himself, played a role in the war crime trials that followed the end of WW II. He is often overlooked in American history classes because he was a Communist (and died long before the Wall fell) and Spanish. But he is important because of the evidence that he preserved.  Rudio’s graphic novel is partial biography, detailing what might have happened or did happened in the camp as Boix finds himself in a position to gain evidence of the war crimes committed in the camp. The horrors of the camp are not softened in the graphic novel. The layout and conveying of the story not only illustrate the dangers in saving the historical record, but also in the various ways the evidence was used in the war crime trials as well as the purpose of the trials themselves.  Highly recommended.
092	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	First comic of the year, and what a choice it was. Rough, hard, true. Great art and it’s awesome how he managed to adapt his cartoony style on such a strong theme without the end result appearing shallow.  The stories from the concentration camps survivors are never ending, and each of them unique in the way it narrates history. After all, there is no better way to learn history but through the eyes of those who lived it.
093	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	“I was on my own, as I surely always had been, from the beginning to the end.” This thought underlines Salva Rubio’s graphic novel “The Photographer of Mauthausen,” which is set in the concentration camp of the same name during Nazi Germany.  The photographer in question is Francisco Boix, a Spanish photographer who survived the war but died at the young age of 30. His brave act of smuggling photographs of deaths at the camp, which eventually became hard evidence of the atrocities committed there, made him a hero of sorts. The novel details his experiences at the camp, his survival, and life after.  At just 118 pages the novel is a quick read but by no means is it easy. It begins with Francisco waiting at a café by the border for his sister Nuria. We never come to know anything about Nuria except that he had promised that they will meet again. From there, we are taken ten years back into Mauthausen, a ‘Category 3 camp, set aside, according to Heydrich’s classification, for “irredeemable” prisoners.’ Francisco and his family have just arrived by train but soon enough, he loses his father, and is left all alone.  Slowly, we get to know of life in the camp through Francisco’s detailed descriptions. We get to know of the hardships, the torture, and worst of all, the deaths. Prisoners are pushed over cliffs, thrown onto barbed wires, and subjected to medical experiments with their deaths being recorded as suicides or accidents. Francisco works in the privileged Identification Department of the camp thanks to his experience as a press photographer earlier, and he is soon noticed by Paul Ricken, the head of the department. Ricken makes him his assistant for his bizarre photography expeditions that involved the German taking pictures of prisoners in the throes of death.  “I understood perfectly well what these strange, artistic photos meant: this madman thought he could turn death into art!”  Once Francisco realized this, he became determined to use his access to the lab and try to preserve as many negatives as he could. The rest of the novel is about the high risks and the many people it took to ensure the photos, and the people themselves, escaped destruction.  Although this retelling is a mixture of imagination and reality the collective experience of the prisoners is far from the truth. The horrible beatings, the injection of gasoline into people’s bodies, the starvation and so much more are what every prisoner must have gone through. I can only imagine, vaguely at that, but I nor anyone could ever fully understand because as Madame Vaillant-Couturier says, “there are no words, no images which can make people understand something they haven’t lived through.”  Francisco’s images did serve as hard evidence, though, and helped convict some of the Nazis involved in the activities of Mauthausen in the Nuremberg trials. His endeavour to save the negatives was daring, despairing, and extremely risky and was done with the ultimate aim of preserving history and memory. But despite all the trouble only about a 1,000 negatives were saved from a total of 20,000, author Salva Rubio informs us. The rest have disappeared into oblivion. Like so many untold stories from the war.  Rubio’s artwork supports the gripping narration with vivid blues and greys emphasizing the dreariness of the camp only punctuated with sepia or muted green tones to differentiate photographs. An interesting aspect that I noted was that most of the prisoners had almost the same facial features – bushy eyebrows, close-cropped hair, and full lips – but the Germans were distinctly different. Is it Rubio’s way of showing how prisoners were treated simply as a big, heaving mass of flesh?  I immensely enjoyed reading this novel. ‘Enjoyed’ is perhaps the wrong word to use for a subject as bleak as this, and perhaps I should say that Rubio/Francisco had my full attention. I look forward to reading more novels like these. There are always more stories to be told. I hope, like Francisco, there were people who did not give up.  Big thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for giving me an ARC for a review!
094	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	For the most part, I would say that most of the world is very familiar with the concentration camps that held the Jews. But, there were others that were held as well, and this story tells of one such camp which held Spanish communists, that Franco didn't care about, and let the Nazis have. They were tortured just as much as the Jews, killed, beaten, starved, and experimented on.  François Boix, was a photographer, who fled from Spain, during the Spanish Civil War, to France, just in time to be captured by the Nazis, and put in Mauthausen. There, he manages to survive, and gets a job shooting photos of the deaths of his fellow inmates, because the Nazis, for some reason, want to document it. Perhaps it is art, as they tell him, perhaps it is something else.  And the overwhelming feeling Boix has, through all this, is that these pictures must be preserved at all costs, that the pictures have to get out into the world. That when this is all over, that there will be punishment for those who have done this horrid deeds.     Most of the book is him trying to figure out a) how to survive and b) how to get these photos out into the world.  The sad thing is, he manages to do both. This is not giving away anything, of the story, since the story opens with him being free, but the part where he goes to the Nuremberg trails, and tries to get his story heard is so sad. They only want revenge, they do not want to hear his story.    A little slow in bits, where he is trying to figure things out, but well done, and based on the life of a real person, written from information of those who lived with him, at the camps, and stories passed down.  Thanks to Netgalley for making this book available for an honest review.
095	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Most online accounts of Ernst Kaltenbrunner and Albert Speer mention that they were convicted at the Nuremberg trials but few accounts mention the testimony and evidence provided by Francisco Boix that enabled those convictions. Nor do they mention the bravery and sacrifices of the people involved in preserving and delivering that evidence to the outside world. The Photographer of Mauthausen by Salva Rubio (writer), Pedro J Colombo (illustrator) and Aintzane Landa (colourist) tells the story of Boix, a Spanish photographer and veteran of the Spanish Civil War. Following his part in the civil war, Boix was exiled to France and joined the French army before being captured by the Germans. The Photographer of Mauthausen starts with Boix's arrival at Mauthausen in 1941. Boix starts off his internment as a translator but soon finds a position in the photography lab. Somehow, inexplicably, SS-Hauptscharführer Paul Ricken takes a liking to to Boix and recruits him as assistant to his macabre photography project. In this role, Boix is exposed to the many atrocities being committed at Mauthausen (in addition to the ones he had already witnessed). Boix realises initially that this evidence needs to be preserved and several prisoners get involved in making this happen. However, as news reaches camp of an impending Russian victory, Boix realises that he needs to get proof of the atrocities to people on the outside of the camp. Boix was successful and both his testimony and the photographic evidence proved that Nazis such as Kaltenbrunner and Speer were not only aware of what was happening at Mauthausen but they were complicit in the atrocities too. The value of The Photographer of Mauthausen is in the questions that it raises about justice and remembrance. At the time of the Nuremberg trials, the photos were used to obtain convictions but Boix expresses frustration on page in the graphic novel about why people weren't more concerned about what happened at Mauthausen and the atrocities committed. The Photographer of Mauthausen is an excellent graphic novel that tells, in an accessible format, an important story in the annals of Holocaust history while serving as an educational source on both Nazi atrocities and the trials following the war.
096	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"This is splendid comics about terrible times. It maps the life of Francisco Boix, the Spanish prisoner in KL Mauthausen, and few of his fellow compatriots. He became a photographer for Gestapo there, secretly determined to bring those photographs, the evidence of the Nazi atrocities, to the communist party. This is the tale, not document, so the historical facts are adjusted and the blanks are filled for sakes of the narration. But as someone who visited the place, I must say the result feels correct and authentic. The story is working well, the art is close to ""Europe classic styles"" (with a different style for photographs to make them look more lifelike) and together it gives almost reportage picture of Francisco past. No purposeful emotional scenes, no forced moral points, just the as closest picture of that time, place and one man's fate as comics book could be. And it feels right. The stories who force emotion and morals are more powerful at starts, but they also lose part of their credibility by that. Not The Photographer of Mauthausen. This graphic novel brings you the whole picture of one man (and by his eyes) as unbiased as it could be with one purpose. Not to make you sad or angry or something. But to commemorate Francisco and all his countrymen who shared this grim fate, many of them until their last day. To remind the past so we wouldn't be doomed to repeat it."
097	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	'The Photographer of Mauthausen' by Salva Rubio with illustrations by Pedro Columbo is a retelling of the life of Francisco Boix, a Spanish press photographer who found himself in a concentration camp and was witness to horrific events.  Francisco, or Francois, fled to France at the beginning of World War II. The French handed him over to the Nazis and he was sent to Mauthausen, a camp with an entrance, but not much of an exit. He found himself using his photographic skills in a bid to survive. He photographed Nazi officers, but also the dead. He realized that he had access to evidence to potentially convict the Nazis, but first he had to figure out how to get the photos out.  It's not an easy story to read, but it's a good one. The things that Francisco saw were pretty terrible, and that's alluded to with the amazing cover to this volume. The art is top notch throughout, as is the story.  I received a review copy of this graphic novel from Europe Comics and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Thank you for allowing me to review this graphic novel.
099	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"English and Spanish review This graphic novel. Is really.... Graphic. As always with the WW2 stories. So, this is the adaptation of a real photographer who risked his life in order to try and let the people know what really was happening in this concentration camps. This was harsh, it was short but really hit. I don't usually read WW2 histories because I'm soft but I think is important to learn about this dark time. I really, really liked it, I would've wanted this to be longer but I don't complain. The illustrations were really amazing, one of the best I've seen in graphic novels. *there's a movie based in this events on Netflix. You should check that movie out. It's Called ""the Photographer Of mauthansen""  Review en español   Esta novela gráfica. Es realmente... Gráfica. Como siempre con las historias de la Segunda Guerra mundial. Así que, esta es la adaptación de un verdadero fotógrafo que arriesgó su vida para intentar que la gente sepa lo que realmente estaba pasando en estos campos de concentración. Fue duro, fue corto pero realmente importante. No suelo leer historias WW2 porque soy blanda pero creo que es importante aprender sobre este momento oscuro en la historia. Realmente, realmente me gustó; hubiera querido que fuera más largo, pero no me quejo. Las ilustraciones fueron realmente increíbles, una de las mejores que he visto en novelas gráficas. Hay una película basada en estos eventos en Netflix. Deberían ver esa película. Se llama ""El Fotógrafo de Mauthansen"""
101	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Somehow simultaneously harrowing, uplifting, and depressing. Tells the true story of Francesc Boix, a Spanish communist imprisoned in Mauthausen, a Nazi concentration camp. He worked around the Nazis and within and around the prisoner Communist hierarchy to smuggle out photographic evidence of the Nazi camp atrocities. He has to risk death, his soul, the safety of his friends and everyone in the camp, and his health to get the pictures out, and in the end it feels amazing that he succeeds. But then the letdown when no one wants to dig into his pictures and honor the dead and hear what was done......it's immense. In the end, what did it matter? Is doing good and seeking justice its own reward? I have to think it is; in an uncaring universe we have to forge our own kind, just path. But man sometimes it's hard to want to continue to try to do the right thing. This one is going to stick with me for a long time.**Thanks to the artist, publisher, and NetGalley for a free copy in exchange for an honest review.
103	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"Difficult stories come to life in graphic novel form. I'm so glad to be alive in this time where graphic novels or histories or poems or whatever-else are coming into their own. There are things that can't be said in a better way. I can't call this story ""beautiful"" in the usual sense of the word, but the truth being told clearly and without flinching is a kind of fidelity to life and love and people otherwise overlooked, that is deeply meaningful and, yes, beautiful."
104	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	A very interesting read this was! I'm a huge fan of anything that has to do with world war 2; it fascinates me. Mauthausen is one of the camps I haven't read much about and reading and seeing it through the eyes of Fransesco, talking to his Nuria gave me a whole new perspective. I really enjoyed the storyline; it matched very well with the graphics and those two combined made the novel feel very much real. For me, this is a book I'd recommend if you're into ww2 stories or if you want to know more about what happened at Mauthausen.
109	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	There is so much I’m constantly made aware of that I don’t know. I am so thankful to stories and writers like this that share these stories. 
110	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Communist and photographer Francisco Boix is handed over to the Nazis after fleeing to France at the beginning of WWII. He eventually ends up at the Mauthausen camp where he finds a group of communist comrades who help him get a job working in the identification department, where he officially confirms identities and photographers incoming prisoners, and unofficially develops (discreetly) the personal film of Nazi soldiers. Francisco learns that a powerful and twisted SS officer is photographing the deaths of prisoners for his own satisfaction and considers it art. The officer notices Francisco is a talented photographer and begins bringing him along to set up lights and sometimes stage these gruesome scenes for photographs. Francisco decides he will find a way to smuggle out the photo negatives as proof of these war crimes to bring the Nazis to justice at the end of the war. With his comrades fearing for their lives, few support his daring plan but he refuses to give up. A gripping story of the horrors experienced in concentration camps and the weight of risking one's life and the lives of others for the greater good. The Photographer of Mauthausen is a compelling look at a man divided by political party allegiance and his humanity who risks everything to bring the atrocities he witnessed to light so that history will not repeat itself. Thanks to the publisher and NetGalley for offering a digital ARC to review.
111	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This “graphic novel” tells the story of a Spanish photographer, Francisco Boix, who was sent to the Mauthausen Concentration Camp as a Communist during the Second World War. [Note: I only put graphic novel in quotes because it’s not a fictitious story, which “novel” implies, but graphic novel seems to be the accepted term for any graphically depicted story – fact or fiction.] Mauthausen was a camp in Austria. While it wasn’t technically one of the extermination camps, it was legendary for the death toll associated with the granite mine where many of the inmates labored. Its “staircase of death” was the location of untold fatalities, including: murders by the Nazis, suicides, and even tripping accidents that will happen when an emaciated prisoner has to carry 50 kg stones up almost 200 uneven steps with no railing day after day.  Boix, who had been a journalistic photographer previously, was assigned to work for a Nazi officer who took pictures in the camp – particularly pictures of fatalities. Boix carried equipment, set up lighting, developed negatives, and made prints. His boss, Ricken, is depicted as bizarre character. On the one hand, Ricken seems not so bad by Nazi SS standards, but, on the other hand, he has a sociopathic inclination to see death as art. Boix takes advantage of his position to make copies of the negatives with the idea that they will be evidence when the war comes to the end. At first, there is support for this plot among the Spanish Communists, who help hide the negatives away in places like the carpentry shop. However, this support dwindles when it becomes clear that the Germans will lose the war, and – thus --surviving to the end becomes everyone’s primary focus. Soon Boix is on his own to figure out how to get the photos out. He develops a plan involving one of the boys at the camp (children being less intensely scrutinized) and an Austrian woman, who is a sympathizer.  The book climaxes with the operation to get the negatives out of the camp, but resolves with the immediate post-War period when Boix attempts to generate interest in the photographs as well providing testimony at the Nuremberg Trials. Boix is portrayed as fiery and impassioned. When the others at Mauthausen just want to survive to the end, he maintains that any risk is worth it. While he is shown to have some conflict about putting a boy’s life at risk with (arguably) the riskiest step in the process, he doesn’t seem waiver. At the trials he’s outraged about the panel’s insistence on “just the facts.” He wants to freely and fully tell the story of Mauthausen, and they – like courts in democracies everywhere – wish to maintain an appearance of the dispassionate acquisition of facts.  I found this book to be engaging and well worth the read. The artwork is well-done and easy to follow. The story is gripping. While there are a vast number of accounts of events at places like Auschwitz, there aren’t so many popular retellings of events at Mauthausen. I highly recommend this book for those interested in events surrounding World War II and the Holocaust. 
112	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	First, I want to thank both NetGalley and Dead Reckoning for giving me early access to this book in exchange for an honest review.  This was a very powerful story and it felt very appropriate to have been made into a visual story since photographs are such a crucial part of the narrative. Most of the holocaust narratives I have read in books or seen in movies over the years have mostly featured Jews or those who were trying to help them. In history class we learned that there were those who didn't have any connection to Judaism or Jews who got sent to concentration camps, but this is the first story I have read that didn't focus on those groups. In this case, Spaniards. And more specifically, mostly those who fled Spain when Franco came to power. (If I hadn't read A Long Petal of the Sea, I probably would not have understood situation as to how these men ended up in France and then the concentration camp. Though, in that book, the Spain refugees go to South America.)  This graphic novel mostly focuses on one man: Francisco Boix and how he hopes to use photographs to fight the Nazis. The artwork is gorgeous. The color palate sets the mood and feel of the story perfectly. I would definitely recommend this to anyone who wants to know about this part of history.  Content Warning: Scenes from concentration camps (though they clearly convey about the conditions, they are not specifically graphic in gory detail)
113	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	• The photographer of Mauthausen  So thia graphic novel got me hooked from the very 1st page. Honestly I had no idea going in the book and that made my experience a whole lot better. I loved this novel  It's about a photographer who ends up in Mauthausen in the time of nazis and world war. The novel brilliantly shows us the dirty side of nazis and the ruthlessness of them.  The time when he was in prison he discovered some stuff about nazis which made him adamant to want to leave the place trying to save as many people with him out of there as he can.  Honestly speaking if this novel would have been taken as an animated series or a series containing 5 episodes I would gladly watch it and love every moment of it.  This novel gripped and hooked me from start to end, how families broke, how lovers got departed, how people died, how many people got forgotten during the war time, this novel showed it all in such short pages.  Also the hint and bit of departed romance made the story plausible.  So I recommend this graphic novel to anyone who wanna dive in some war time cruelty without any proper knowledge of starting or end cause that's what will hit you hard  Also last but not the least kudos to the graphic artist. You did good.  • Character development- 4.5☆ • Story Plot- 4.5☆ • Side characters- 2.5☆ • Flow of the story- 3.8☆ • Overall - 4☆
114	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	The Photographer of Mauthausen by Salva Rubio & illustrated by Pedro Columbo, is a dramatic retelling of true events in the life of Francisco—or François—Boix, a Spanish press photographer and communist who fled to France at the beginning of World War II.  This beautifully illustrated book talks about the harsh and truthful events that occurred during the World War II at Nazi concentrated camps. The pictures and illustrated speak true to the events and some of them do give you goosebumps.  Boix was assigned to the photography department at the camp and that's where his journey started about giving justice to the one's to who are dead. The brutality caused by the Nazi German, will make you think upon alot of your history and all of these were used to deceive people and used as a propaganda in order to make them work as slaves.  If you are looking to read any book related to World War II then I highly recommend you guys to check this out. The information is well researched and the photographs are truly commendable. They bring into light the true feelings and lives of people during those times. ____ Thank You to NetGalley and Publisher for providing me an eArc in exchange of a honest opinion.
116	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I received an e-copy of The Photographer of Mauthausen from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review.  I really didn't know what to expect from this graphic novel when I downloaded it but I am so glad that I did, this was not a story that I had ever heard about and seeing that it is a true story to one of the most talked-about events in history is mindblowing to me.  The Photographer of Mauthausen follows the true story of a Spanish man who was imprisoned in a nazi concentration camp during World War 2, that's the thing that always gets to me is that history leaves out just how many people that were non-Jewish were also sent to the camps. Francisco Boix is the name of the man that the story follows and he is tasked with photographing what was going on in the camps and while doing this he starts to hide away some of the pictures that are later used to convict nazi members.  This was a very heavy topic and like anything to do with the nazi and the concentration camps it was hard to read about but this is such a different perspective then any I had seen before and I am so glad that I read it.  Thank you so much for letting me review a copy.
117	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Once again, I find myself in the ironic situation of reading a Spanish graphic novel in English (you know, with me actually being a Spaniard, and all). But, in this case, better that that missing this masterpiece, and glad to see this important work being translated and available in the US.  The story here might not be familiar in the specifics to many, but it is still very universal in its content, and Salva Rubio really succeeds in making it both emotionally compelling and highly entertaining, till the point it feels you are actually watching a classic movie set in a Nazi Camp.  What can I say? Read for the entertainment value or for the historic value, but read it.
118	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This was an emotional story, but unfortunately I wasn't invested in any of the characters. They were really hard to tell apart from each other and this was way too short to properly give the story its space. There's a scene at the end where the protagonist isn't given the opportunity to talk about what happened, which felt like a weird analogy for the author and this book.
121	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	No graphic novel or photos will ever convey what happened to the people in the camps, undoubtedly. This was a new point of reference for me, having not known or remembered that the Spanish, Russian, and how many other communities were ‘cleansed’ by the Nazis.  To think Francisco died at the same age I am now. Unbelievable.
124	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"""This is a dramatic retelling of true events in the life of Francisco Boix, a Spanish press photographer and communist who fled to France at the beginning of World War II. But there, he found himself handed over by the French to the Nazis, who sent him to the notorious Mauthausen concentration camp, where he spent the war among thousands of other Spaniards and other prisoners.""  Francisco's story and the story of those in Mauthausen Camp broke my heart and filled me with rage. These stories are being told and NEED to be told so history does not repeat itself. While many of us knew of the Jewish people in the camps, how many of us knew about Communists? This is just one story of thousands that need to be told. Francisco risks not just his life but that of his comrades to smuggle the negatives showing the brutality being done to them. A powerful graphic novel that anyone interested in WWII history should read. The artwork is amazing with dark hues and shadows that lend the pages gravitas and make Francisco's time in Mauthausen seem much more terrifying."
125	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	When I was a teen (many, many years ago) they used to have comic adaptations of historical events and great moments in history. They were mostly very G-rated, family friendly offerings aimed at educating young minds. This is like the grown up version of those books.  Mauthausen concentration camp was a horrific place, one of the worst camps of WW II, so it stands to reason that this book is a bit grim. Many of the artistic images are disturbing even in illustrated form. Still, it gives insight into how even the darkest of times can inspire courage and, more importantly, hope.  ***Thanks to NetGalley for providing me with a free digital copy of this title in exchange for an honest review.
128	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	The Photographer of Mauthausen sheds light on the survival tale of Spanish photographer Francisco Boix in Mauthausen, an infamous World War II concentration camp. Boix is remembered, though not spoken of often in terms of the war and crimes against humanity, for concocting a plan to smuggle 20,000 negatives taken by a high German officer of the camp, deaths, and political leaders in order to show the public what atrocities were being committed and covered up in Mauthausen.  The book follows the story from Boix's arrival in France, as a political Spanish refugee from his own Fascist government, through being turned over to the SS, surviving Mauthausen for years, and testifying in trials after the end of the war. Though the content needed to move through so much time and detail, the book accomplishes covering the main points of his story without compromising the truth. This would be a great supplement to an academic course as an introduction to alternative stories about survivors from World War II or as an introduction to the complexities between politics and people. One element that appear multiple times in the story is Boix's frustration with the limits of politics to save or take care of people. His own Communist party turned their backs on the plight of communist survivors of camps and the trails after war were less concerned with mourning the loss of life than focusing on simple evidence to execute a German officer. It is this complexity and nuance that elevates the book from a simple hero story to a hero story with a conscious. It is human in scope.  As a graphic novel, the illustrations are dark and strong. Heavy blues, grays, and browns reflect the grim reality of life in a concentration camp, which is also mentioned in the script. During scenes associated with life and possibility, the colors brighten and deepen in greens and reflections of light. The linework is sharp and heavy, and at first seems not smooth, but adds a source of grittiness and seriousness to the characters and rooms in which they spend their lives working under heavy strain.  Highly recommend this as a story but also has a history.
129	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	To say this is a beautiful book seems wrong because of the content, but this book is beautiful. This is the story of Francisco Boix and how he saved thousands of negatives during his time at Mauthausen to prove the horrible things the Nazis were doing to the prisoners.  The illustrations in this book were accurate and haunting. I thought the use of somber, darker colors lent the illustrations an air of realism.  One can only hope that we learn from these atrocities and that we don't allow this to happen again.  Thank you NetGalley for the DRC.
130	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Well done to this book for redressing a balance – the fact that I hardly considered Spanish inmates in Nazi camps, let alone Communist ones. And well done, too, for doing it with a story of high drama and proper grit. Apart from the framing device (which at least shows our hero kept some spunk and friendly spirit, despite all he'd been through, but which didn't really add that much) I really got caught up in the true story of a Spanish Communist, tasked with first translating for the Nazis and Kapos, then employed in the photographic department, recording arrivals and more. The way they tried to get photographic proof of the Shoah out may seem over-blown to some, but from their point of view, where they had no timeline for the end of the war and a need to rely on any possible hope for some justice in the future, it must have been important. This is much beyond a standard story of life in the Holocaust, with all its attendant darkness and camp details, for it has some real-life espionage to go with its historical basis. Some may find the artwork a little coarse, but I really liked this for the story, so it's four and a half stars from me.
131	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	A dramatic, graphic retelling of true events in the life of Francisco Boix, a Spanish press photographer and communist who fled to France at the beginning of World War II but was eventually sent to Mauthausen concentration camp, where he spent the war among thousands of other Spanish prisoners. More than half of them perished there. Boix finds himself the confidant of an SS officer who is documenting prisoner deaths at the camp. Boix realizes that he has a chance to prove Nazi war crimes by stealing the negatives of these perverse photos—but only at the risk of his own life and the lives of every other prisoner in the camp. A fascinating, powerful, little-known story from the Holocaust. Originally poublished in France.
134	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	It’s easy to forget just how massive the entire mechanism of German prisoner and extermination camps was during World War II. An entire industry of railyards, specialized camps and sub-camps, and logistics operations were needed to coordinate the wholesale slaughter of countless people. While European Jews easily suffered the most in The Holocaust under the treacherous fist of the Nazi Regime, many others were caught up in the bloodshed, with some very underrepresented in the history books. Take, for example, Spanish Republicans that fled Fascist Spain during The Spanish Civil War only to be captured by Nazis in Occupied France and transported to Mauthausen Concentration Camp. The Photographer of Mauthausen by Salva Rubio tells the story of, perhaps, that very camp’s most “famous” survivor, Francisco Boix, and his crusade to get the word out about just how meticulous and murderous the German camp system was.  “This is a dramatic retelling of true events in the life of Francisco Boix, a Spanish press photographer and communist who fled to France at the beginning of World War II. But there, he found himself handed over by the French to the Nazis, who sent him to the notorious Mauthausen concentration camp, where he spent the war among thousands of other Spaniards and other prisoners. More than half of them would lose their lives there. Through an odd turn of events, Boix finds himself the confidant of an SS officer who is documenting prisoner deaths at the camp. Boix realizes that he has a chance to prove Nazi war crimes by stealing the negatives of these perverse photos—but only at the risk of his own life, that of a young Spanish boy he has sworn to protect, and, indeed, that of every prisoner in the camp.”   As hard as reading just about any Holocaust story can be, simply due to the nature of the subject matter, this book was hard to put down due to the comparatively out of the ordinary point of view and the dramatic presentation of the story. While I was reading, I couldn’t help thinking that this story would make an amazing film, only to find out that there are a couple already – Francisco Boix, A Photographer in Hell and El fotógrafo de Mauthausen. In the future, I may have to seek these out assuming they are in English. So, what makes it so good? The fact that Francisco is unwittingly thrown into a situation where he becomes an agent of an unseated Communist regime only to become an ardent partisan himself is pretty interesting. He is taken aback when it is pointed out that he has basically lost himself and become a person that exists solely to achieve a political goal – much like how Nazis run themselves. He pushes this aside anyway and pushes forward, risking his life and many others so that perhaps there is a future for somebody, if not himself.  Boix is definitely an interesting person, and it’s extremely sad that he succumbed to an early death most likely caused by some disease he was exposed to at the camp. Thankfully, he was able to finish his life doing what he loved – photo-journalism and trying to get justice for his people. He gained notoriety for testifying at the Nuremberg Trials and the Dachau Trials that the Reich leadership DID know about the extermination camps and poor conditions, a fact that many attempted to hand-waive as something they were entirely unaware of. There is a pretty powerful scene in this book where Boix is testifying, in reality being almost interrogated, about pictures that he has taken or been witness to and one pops up of Ernst Kaltenbrunner, who appeared visiting both the Mauthausen Camp, and the Wienergraben Quarry adjacent to the camp. Kaltenbrunner was notoriously blood-thirsty and personally killed one of Boix’s friends, an act that made him cry for hours, so “fingering” the monster in the courtroom was an act of catharsis bordering on petty vengeance. Very powerful stuff.   The author confirms that due to the narrative being largely pulled solely from records of witness testimony and some interviews, he had to fill some gaps in with fiction just like any historical writer is forced to do. None of the events depicted in the book are out of the ordinary and seem like something that could have possibly gone down in the situations presented. It’s a solid narrative and the message is the important thing when it’s all said and done anyway.  This was a great graphic novel that has really piqued my interest in this chapter of World War II history as well as the life of Francisco Boix, if I get a chance I need to find a full-on book about his life to see if there are any other things this leaves out as well as some of the actual historical photos referenced. As always Dead Reckoning does a splendid job of bringing over amazing comics, this time a book that was originally published in Belgium. I will always appreciate their track record of publishing military history books that avoid the same narrative over and over again, instead opting for interesting POVs like this book.  https://arcadiapod.com/2022/06/06/rev...
136	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"Books, movies, and graphic novels about the Holocaust are always a tricky read for me. On the one hand, I know it was a horrific event in our history and that we can't forget about it lest we repeat the mistakes of the past... but on the other hand, media involving it is almost never pleasant to take in, and I read and watch things to be entertained, not depressed or horrified. So it was with some trepidation that I picked up ""The Photographer of Mauthausen,"" and I went in knowing it would not be an easy or pleasant read. Still, I'm glad I gave it a look, as it covered an aspect of World War II and the Holocaust that I'd never even heard of until now -- the fate of Spanish prisoners of war in the camps.  This graphic novel tells the true story of Francisco Boix, a press photographer and Communist who fled to France during World War II... but was handed over to the Nazis and imprisoned in Mauthausen. Facing horrific conditions -- starvation, beatings, forced labor, and the possibility of a cruel and senseless death -- Francisco soon finds himself in a slightly better position as the personal photographer of a high-ranking Nazi who's obsessed with death. As he photographs some of the atrocities at camp, he realizes that the stories of these prisoners need to be told... and even if he doesn't make it out alive, the photos he's taking must. And so he hatches a daring plan to sneak the precious photos out of camp...  The artwork in this graphic novel is somber and mostly gray-toned to reflect the mood of the story, and doesn't shy away from the brutality of the events being depicted (though depictions of blood and nudity are tasteful and not gratuitous). There's a bit of same-face syndrome going on, and facial features can be exaggerated from time to time, but for the most part the artwork is well-done and compliments the story nicely.  The author admits to having to guess at certain events and lines of dialogue in this graphic novel, but given that almost all the principle figures in this book are likely dead, that's to be expected. The story is still a powerful and heartwrenching one, a tribute to the Spanish prisoners of war who are all too often ignored in stories about WWII and the Holocaust. It's brutal, honest, and doesn't flinch from how horrible people can be to each other... but it clings to hope as well, and to the belief that humans can accomplish great things even in horrible circumstances.  This is not an easy read, and is both heartbreaking and horrific -- especially given that it's based on a true story. But it's a story that desperately needs to be told, if only so we don't repeat history and don't dishonor the memory of the people who died in Mauthausen and other camps. If you're a fan of Art Spiegelman's The Complete Maus give this one a shot."
137	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Publisher’s Blurb: This is a dramatic retelling of true events in the life of Francisco Boix, a Spanish press photographer and communist who fled to France at the beginning of World War II. But there, he found himself handed over by the French to the Nazis, who sent him to the notorious Mauthausen concentration camp, where he spent the war among thousands of other Spaniards and other prisoners.  So often when we think of the Holocaust, we only think of the 6 million Jews who were executed. We forget, or some don’t even know of all the other victims of that atrocity. Catholics, Gypsy’s, Homosexuals, Christians, Communists, and Spaniards, to list just a few groups hated and murdered by the Nazis. The Photographer of Mauthausen tells the story of Communist Spaniards sent to the prison that they were never supposed to leave alive. Like all prisoners, some gave up, some fought back, some found ways to survive that we may not approve of, but who are we to judge if we have never been in a situation even remotely like this. Francisco Boix did what he needed to do, not just to survive but to get out proof of the horrific deeds perpetrated by the Nazis. I’m sure his choice was horrible for him, he had to not only witness the murder of countrymen and friends but record those horrors with his camera. He also had to help make propaganda pictures that made Mauthausen's life look happy and fulfilling. Salba Rubio did a wonderful job telling this story. You could feel Boix’s anger at his fellow inmates when they didn’t want him to gather the proof for the world to see, you felt the fear he had, not just for himself but for his comrades. To be caught would be his death, but others would die as well as an example to all. You could see and feel his righteous anger when later, no one cared to hear his story or see the photos he made. But he never gave up and he showed them to anyone who would look and see what he and others went through. The artwork of Columbo Pedro was a perfect accompaniment to the story, used as a vehicle to make you feel like you were there. I had never heard the story of Francisco Boix before. That is a shame. His story, his life, should be better known. Now more than ever, as so few survivors are left, the stories must be told. To forget the past is to be doomed to repeat it. What happened in Germany during World War II must never be forgotten, nor the other counties assistance, and turning a blind eye to the massacre. (Looking at you Roosevelt…) Highly recommended, with usual trigger warnings that go without saying. Murder, language, racism. I received this book free from Dead Reckoning, and Netgalley for my honest, unbiased review.  
138	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	We know of a place called Auschwitz, one of the six camps created by the Nazis purely for the purpose of extermination. Dachau outside Munich was the first mass internment camp. You see, the Nazis were the perfect definition of “method to madness”. There were various types of camps and sub-camps, filled largely based on the fate that awaited their occupants.  Mauthausen in Upper Austria was a camp where extermination through labour was the preferred method of murder. Unlike other camps, it was also home largely to the intelligentsia.  Among the prisoners at Mauthausen was an engineer called Simon Wiesenthal, who would make a name for himself hunting down Nazis in the post-War world. A lesser-known prisoner was the Spaniard Francesc Boix, a Communist who had been forced to flee his homeland after Franco’s victory and had taken refuge in France, which soon fell into German hands. It is Boix’s story that the comic The Photographer of Mauthausen seeks to tell.  Boix was a photographer during the Spanish Civil War and at Mauthausen, he was put to work developing photographs of the camp and the events taking place inside it for the Nazis. Boix would, in his time at the lab in Mauthausen, be a pivotal part of the smuggling out of three thousand negatives detailing the horrors of the camp.  The comic is well-written, in particular the second scene where the reader accompanies Boix to the camp, and covers all parts of Boix’s life at and just after Mauthausen in a manner that is compelling, while still doing justice and being respectful of the fact that it is, at the end of the day, about a person’s life in a concentration camp. What I didn’t like was the opening, nor the attempt of writer Salva Rubio to draw us emotionally closer to Boix through his desire to reunite with his sister. It felt clumsy. The narrative also doesn’t really give you a sense of time (Boix was imprisoned for four years) apart from just drop dates here and there.  Much of the flow of the comic is thanks to illustrator Pedro J. Colombo and colourist Aintzaine Landa, whose panels are to be marvelled at. The format is naturally dependent on their skill, and they shine through. Colombo is especially terrific in his recreation of Mauthausen and his depiction of faces, though I do wonder why he didn’t take greater care to portray the fatigue of the camps over a period of time. Landa’s distinct palettes in depicting the world of the camp and that which is outside it also stand out. Cold greys and murky browns fill page upon page, and the sudden appearance of a bright green or a pleasant yellow is as much a stylistic choice as one of appreciating just what the camps were.  The Photographer of Mauthausen stumbles along the way but does a fair job in telling the story of Francesc Boix. The greater win here is how it succeeds in making part of the Holocaust accessible without trying to alter history.  I was able to view a copy of the book thanks to NetGalley and the publishers Dead Reckoning in exchange for a review.  More at Varun Oak-Bhakay's Writer's Block
139	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I will never tire of reading the accounts of Holocaust survivors. The Photographer of Mauthausen is a graphic novel, which is a medium I don't often read. I was skeptic going in - how can such an important story such as a Holocaust survivor be adequately portrayed in a cartoon? I've never had such misplaced doubts in a written piece of work.  The story is of Francisco Boix, a Spaniard Communist arrested in France and sent to the death camp in Germany. Prisoners weren't sent to this camp to work - they were sent here to die. Despite this (or perhaps BECAUSE of this, since he had nothing left to lose?), Boix risks everything, even the lives of his fellow prisoners, to expose the atrocities of the Nazis within the camp. He subjects himself to a 24/7 on-call basis witnessing the sick, depraved torture and murder the Nazis perform regularly. He takes part in an elaborate plan to smuggle the negatives of pictures capturing all this out of the camp. What's crazy is they smuggled over 20,000 negatives out - but only around 1,000 survived.  What I really liked about this one is the author doesn't just talk about what happened to Boix in the camp. He goes beyond that, to when Boix testified at the Nuremberg trials. I didn't know that many of the witnesses didn't get to tell their entire story. Boix had to fight to even be allowed to testify. Then he had to fight to be heard, by the people who were allegedly fighting for justice on his behalf. AND he couldn't even go back to Spain, because after the war, Stalin decided that any Communist who escaped the camps was a collaborator .... WHAT?! So many survivors survived the most depraved and inhumane conditions, only to be victimized again and again by the supposed good guys. I learned a couple new aspects of the war that I haven't read about so far so it's off to the history books to learn more.  And THAT is what I love about a good book - Rubio didn't just tell a story, he shared a life. He made me interested in learning more. Plus the graphics are hauntingly beautiful and I didn't think I'd ever be saying those words about a graphic novel.  Thanks to Netgalley and Dead Reckoning Publisher for this ARC in exchange for a review.
141	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"The photographer of Mauthausen is a Historical Fiction/ Non-Fiction Graphic Novel based on true events. Actually the author himself have disclaimed that the dialogues between the characters are only guesswork so we can safely say it as retelling based on true events in the life of Francisco Boix.  Francisco was Spanish press photographer and belonged to communist party. During the onset of WW2 he fled to France. But unfortunately he was handed over to Germans as War Prisoners. All the war prisoners are usually sent to Mauthausen concentration camp.  It is called as ""Bone Mill"" by Germans because it is category 3 camp, meaning no prisoner to come out alive. Unlike extermination by gassing in Auschwitz, Mauthausen does it by slave labor and exhaustion.  The book starts when Francisco arrives at the camp. He soon join the secret communist party inside and gets a job in Identity Department as Photographer. When a SS documenting the death of Prisoners comes to know about Francisco's interest in photography, he takes him for his pet project.  As Francisco learns the nature of his new work, he realizes it will be their only chance to collect proofs of whats happening in these concentration camps and expose the Nazis to world. At first many people agrees and help him. But they eventually stop when the risk of getting caught becomes inevitable. So he must do the final act with a help of small boy whom he sworn to protect. It puts all the life of prisoner in danger.  It is must read graphic novel! The artwork is Dark, Gloomy and not joyful complementing the story it tells. I even verified all the major events mentioned in this book and found it to be true. I gained lot of knowledge from this read! There is also a movie in the same name of you are interested. It is an IMPORTANT read and I will rate it 4 ⭐"
142	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"The first time I heard the term ""graphic novel"" I was worried that such novels included graphic violence. To date, this is the only graphic novel I have read that contains actual graphic violence. It just goes to show that first impressions aren't everything. Nazi concentration camps have been the subject of a lot of documentaries, whether in film, nonfiction book, or in another medium. This one toes the line between being historic fiction and documentary, but I'm not sure which side it falls on. Naturally, due to the subject matter (namely Nazi death camps), some of the material is rather disturbing. The illustrator doesn't hesitate to create graphic renderings of the violence and cruelty that occurred in this camp, frequently referencing actual photos taken at the time (and which presumably had something to do with the inspiration for this book). Primarily because of this, the novel is sometimes brutally honest and hard to stomach. The main character himself, however, justifies this in the end, saying that if no one knows and the survivors aren't believed, then history is destined to repeat; a hard truth that has played out too many times in the decades since the Nazi war camp liberation. Sirah, did you like this book? What a foolish question; how can one say that one enjoyed reading a book about cruelty, injustice and pain? However, this book skillfully works with the abominations that occurred in order to weave an inescapable picture of what should have been done and what still needs to be done to protect human rights everywhere. It was especially meaningful to me as a photographer to see that photographs really can make a difference if people have the eyes to see them for what they really are. I can't say I'll be recommending this book to my elementary students since it contains so much mature content, but I think this is a story worth being told."
143	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"The story intrigued me. But a story like this deserves a skillful writing which I missed.  ""The Photographer of Mauthausen"" depicts the historical tale of prisoners of Mauthausen concentration camp during the second world war. These prisoners included intellectuals among them. Francisco Boix, the photographer was among them. Through his narration, we see the history. But a story to be well built up, there are certain other components. I would like to know about the Francisco before the war as he was telling the story. The story just jumped into the concentration camp. How they ended up there - this part could be as interesting. I was also demanding the timeline of the events as it was a historical tale.  In graphic novels, you can send your message with only few outlines. An expression with only few brush strokes can make you emotional or amazed or horrified. This book's illustration was detailed. While reading the dialogues and looking at the illustration simultaneously, it's hard to decide where to focus on, if the illustration is too detailed. Many times, the colors of the subjects were indistinguishable. I had to really struggle to distinguish Francisco, because many of the characters looked same to me. Another note, the type size was too small for a graphic novel.  I was glad to know the story, the sacrifice Francisco and his mates did. But I was demanding quite more details from the story and quite less details but focused spots on the illustration.  Thanks to NetGalley for providing me the ebook!"
144	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"""Things will change. One day or another, they'll understand. If not, history will repeat itself.""  ""The Photographer of Mauthausen"" is based on the real-life experience of Francisco Boix, a Spanish photographer affiliated with the Spanish communist party. After fleeing Spain at the beginning of World War II to go to France, he finds himself handed over by the French to the Nazis, who take him to the Mauthausen concentration camp. Unlike other Nazi concentration camps, Mauthausen was an ""extermination through labor"" camp, that imprisoned political prisoners and members of high social classes from countries subjugated by the Nazis. This set this book apart for me, as almost all other Nazi-related books I've read focused on the Jewish Holocaust, and not on the other categories of camp prisoners.  Soon after arriving at Mauthausen, Boix manages to be assigned to work as a photographer documenting the ""accidental"" deaths at the camp. Through this work he becomes more aware of the sadism of the Nazis and realizes he is in a position that allows him to expose this sadism to the world. Despite its short length, this graphic novel presents a lot of valuable information and tugs at its readers' emotions, as it does not hold back from describing the horrors that the prisoners lived through at the hands of the Nazis. The illustrations, with their bleak blueish-gray colors, pair very well with the narrative. This is definitely a worthwhile read for those with an affinity for history. Thank you NetGalley and Europe Comics for the opportunity to read this graphic novel in exchange for my honest review."
145	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"5 out of 5 - I'll tell you to read this without you asking.  The Photographer of Mauthausen was a story I had yet to learn about WWII history. I didn't know about the Spanish who had gone to fight with the French and were sent to concentration camps. Mauthausen was a work camp that no one was supposed to survive. Francisco Boix was one of the Spaniards who was sent to Mauthausen. In his previous life, he'd been a photographer. This allowed him to get a ""job"" at the camp working with one of the Nazi leaders who was attempting to turn death into an art form, taking photos of men who were killed during the time at Mauthausen.  Francisco uses his place within the camp to steal the photo negatives and works with others to find a way to smuggle them out to a woman in the village nearby. After he is liberated from the camp by the Americans, he is able to recover the negatives that were smuggled out. He attempts to publish them, but other photos have already been published from Auschwitz and Berkenau, so his photos weren't wanted or needed for publication.  He was able to utilize the photos to testify against some of the Nazis in the Nuremberg Trials, but he wasn't able to tell the full stories of what he had witnessed and endured.  You could see the research that had gone into the telling of this story. I also was impressed by the illustrations and coloring of this graphic novel.  Thank you to NetGalley and Dead Reckoning from the U.S. Naval Institute for this advanced copy."
146	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Content warning: Nazis, Nazi violence, blood, gore, death.  Why I read it: Having watched the Netflix movie, I thought this graphic novel would enrich my little knowledge on Francesc Boix.  Plot: We’re going with Francesc as he’s moved to Mauthausen, to his first days in the camp, to when he became the confidant of the SS officer obsessed with death, to him partnering with other Spaniards to help him hide the negatives. It’s fast-paced but not rushed, which makes it exciting, and keeps you forever on the edge of your seat.  Characters: Despite his comrades showing their bravery, I think Francesc (for obvious reasons) is the only one that stands out the most. He epitomizes the young revolutionary image we are all taught at some point in our lives. It doesn’t matter where they come from, but the youth are the leaders of the revolution, and Francesc Boix was one of them.  Visuals: It feels as though The Scream by Edvard Munch has been turned into a cartoon, set during World War II. Does that make any sense? It’s this intense sense of helplessness and lack of hope that makes the story come to life. Incomparable.  Writing style: Salva Rubio made us feel like we were reading Boix’s first-hand account of the events. It’s written in first person which makes the experience that much more personal, intense and emotional. I loved it.  Do I recommend it? 100% yes! If you like history and would like to know a little bit more of what happened during World War II, this is for you. However, keep in mind that this is the adaptation of Francesc Boix’s life and some events are fictional.
147	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	🌟⭐ 8.25 stars out of 10 ⭐🌟 It's a great insight to learn more about one of Nazi's concentration camp, albeit the story feels a bit devoid of emotions.  Keywords: comic, historical, Nazi, based on true story, biography; trigger warning: murder and violence  I was lent the digital copy of this book from Netgalley in an exchange of honest review.  REVIEW The Photographer of Matthausen tells about a Spain photographer named Francisco Boix who was caught in Nazi's concentration camp at Matthausen in 1941. The book tells about the atrocities the thousands prisoner of wars have to face in the camp and how Francisco struggled to fight back.  The artstyle of the comic is done in quite detailed realistic style. It's not my preferred aesthetic but it serves just fine to deliver the story. The story itself has a lot of historical information that's educational to those with very limited knowledge of Nazi and the World War. The panel and transitions between scenes work quite well, but at times it feels too blocky and not really fluid. The story itself feels a bit too sterile, purely historical because the emotion it stirred is not strong enough. I was horrified by the atrocities but can't feel connection to the characters.  CONCLUSION As educational read this book give me lots of insight into history and it's perfect. As a read itself, it's moderately good because its lack of emotional connection.  Thank you Netgalley and the publisher for giving me the chance to read this great book.
148	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I’ve never read a graphic novel before so I don’t really have anything to compare this to. It is the fascinating true story of Francesco Boix, a Spanish prisoner of war that was sent to Mauthausen, a German concentration camp in Austria. On May 5, 1945, US troops liberated Mauthausen-Gusen. The complex had been built in March 1938, and over the next seven years, almost half of the 200,000 prisoners who passed through Mauthausen died.  The majority of the Spanish prisoners at Mauthausen were detailed to quarries where they were worked to death under slave-labor conditions, but a few more fortunate individuals were given administrative jobs. Among them was Barcelona-born Francesco Boix Campo, who arrived at Mauthausen in January 1941, aged 20. Able to speak German, Boix initially worked as a translator, but later, thanks to his photographic skills, was eventually assigned to work in the camp’s photo laboratory.  Francisco Boix captured the life, death and atrocities in the camp and risked his life and the lives of his comrades to smuggles the photos out. After the camp was liberated, Francisco shared these photos with the world. Of the 20000 photos only 1000 remain. Francisco died of complications from torture at the camp shortly after liberation at age 31.  This was a very moving story, but I’m not sure I enjoyed the graphic novel experience. As I was reading this on an iPad I had to constantly zoom and shrink the screen to read the story. It was a bit frustrating. So the experience was a 3 for me, but the story was a 5 leaving the rating at a rounded 4.
149	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Graphic novels can be used to incredible effect, especially with laying out stories that may have otherwise go unheard. Moreover, its the type of medium where you can take in a panel for an infinite amount of time, as a way to stop it.  I had never heard of the Spanish photographer Francisco Boix or the Mauthausen concentration camp before, until now. This is a semi-factual account about the life and death in the camp as well as the incredible feat, he partook in, of stealing negatives of photos taken by the Nazis that were later used as evidence to expose the atrocities there.  The artists never shy away from displaying the horror and hardships lived there. The art is very intricate with deep, stark lines and dark, pale colours. The narrator's POV helps with immersion into that world and yet, as it is said later, I won't know what it was really like as I didn't live through the atrocities. There are many questions raised here, about doing the right thing and persistence to fight for a greater good with high risk when your life can be numbered at any time, and what happens when something you have fought for so hard is negligible in someone else's eyes. Worst of all, your mere survival suggests to them that you were a collaborator.  I would have appreciated a note regarding what parts of the novel were embellished. As the author mentions in the foreword and I could see for myself, even those freed may not have lived to tell us their story.
150	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	ARC received through NetGalley  3.5/5  Salva Rubio's The Photographer of Mauthausen is a graphic novel based on a real-life story of a Spanish photographer Francisco Boix and his life in a Nazi concentration camp of Mauthausen. The story follows Boix's and his allies' attempt to smuggle out photo negatives to expose the horrors the prisoners have lived through in the camps, risking their lives in the process.  The novel was interesting and written from a perspective unlike I had ever seen before. It was fascinating to read from a point of view of a Spanish person and see the discrimination they faced during and after Mauthausen. I felt like the novel also benefitted from being told from a point of view of an actual person as it brought depth into the story. I didn't, however, find myself getting attached to the main character up until the half-way point. I wished the main character and his surroundings would have been more established in the beginning.  When it comes to the illustrations, Pedro Columbo's drawing style made the story accessible and easy to grasp despite the heavy topic it deals with. I personally found the drawing style to be a bit too unmemorable, but the illustrations were completely fine in general. The story overall benefits from being told through a graphic novel as I feel like it might attract more of a younger audience to pick up this book.
151	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	The Photographer of Mauthausen is the semi-factual account of Fransisco Boix, a Spanish photographer captured in France and taken to the Nazi concentration camp Mauthausen. When it's discovered he speaks German, soldiers use him to translate insults and derogatory remarks to their victims. He ends up in a position developing film for Ricken, an evil man intent on creating photographic art out of death. Fransisco believes the film negatives are his only chance at telling the true story of what took place at the camp and decides to sneak them out at any cost: whether it be his life or that of others.  Historical fiction isn't a genre I read often but this story sounded like one I needed to hear. Its graphic novel form ended up making it the perfect medium to read it in because the artwork provided a direct window into the past. The coloring was also done beautifully: fires seemed to glow in dim scenes with grim colors. The storytelling held suspense and I found myself on the edge of my seat a few times as Fransisco needed to make hard but important choices in life-threatening circumstances. This was a really good read and I recommend to anyone who enjoys historical-based stories or enjoys first-person accounts.  Trigger Warning for graphic images of death.  Thank you Dead Reckoning Publishing for providing an eARC via NetGalley in exchange for my honest review.
152	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Read more graphic novel reviews at www.graphiclibrary.org.  This story is based on true events of the life of Francisco Boix, a prisoner of war interned at Mauthausen.  Boix is a Spaniard and a newspaper photographer and communist who is captured in France and sent to several camps before ending up at Mauthausen. For a while, Francisco works as a translator, tasked with translating the insults German soldiers hurl at the prisoners. Later, Francisco is moved up to working in the photography lab at the camp, where he discovers that the SS are meticulously documenting the deaths of prisoners, but staging them and classifying them as suicides or escape attempts. Despite the dangers to his life and the life of those in the camp, Francisco decides it is exceedingly important to get the negatives of these photos out of the camp to show the world what the Nazis were really doing in these extermination camps. After the war, Francisco participates as a witness in the Nuremberg trials, but he finds that most people cannot fathom the photos so many risked their lives to save. This novel is strikingly authentic - Colombo is not shy about illustrating the detailed horrors of how men died in these camps, and the effect is somewhat like the people who do not want to see Boix' photographs. As an audience who hasn't experienced anything like The Holocaust, it is difficult to see these images and to wrap our minds around how the Nazis acted and felt about the different groups they persecuted. But, this topic deserves to be showcased in its uncensored way so as not to sugar-coat any part of the atrocities of what happened. Boix is probably not someone who gets studied in history class, but he is an important figure and a main reason we have any information from the workings of Mauthausen.  ​Colombo seems to have one basic face shape for all prisoners, so everyone looks very similar, including Mateu, the young boy in the camp. Otherwise, his work is very detailed and, most of the time, very heartbreaking. Landa's coloring makes use of mostly dark blues and earth tones in and around the camp, the effect of which shows the dingy conditions and bleak atmosphere of life there.  There is frontal male nudity in scenes where prisoners are sanitized from typhoid or other diseases, and obviously quite a bit of death and murder depicted. This book would be more appropriately paired with high school history classes because of the gravity and attention needed for Holocaust topics.  ​Sara’s Rating: 9/10 Suitability Level: Grades 10-12
153	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Mauthausen was a Nazi concentration camp. The Photography of Mauthausen tells the story of Spanish prisoner and former newspaper photographer Francisco. Director of the Erkennungsdienst, Ricken, was an amateur photographer himself. He orders Francisco to assist him in photographing the inmate death scenes.  And those scenes are horrific. Injecting gasoline into inmate’s hearts? Pushing prisoners into electrified fences “Just for laughs”? Ricken wanted to turn these terrible deaths into art. Francisco, with the help of the Spanish communists within the camp, wants to send them to the Russians to use for anti-Germany propaganda.  The Photography of Mauthausen is a perfect merging of story and art to tell a true memoir of a particularly malevolent time in human history. The coloring, especially the brown lithographic scenes, added to the emotion in the scenes. This is an important story that needs to be told. Plus it takes a new, more personal, perspective on concentration camp inmates and their guards. 5 stars!  Thanks to Dead Reckoning and NetGalley for a copy in exchange for my honest review.
154	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This is an interesting comic on a little publicized and discussed topic, the Spaniards in the Nazi Concentration Camps. In this work, the reader is confronted with the fate of the Communist Spaniards who fled to France following the victory of Francisco Franco in the Spanish Civil War. With the fall of France in 1940, the Vichy government surrendered these Spanish exiles to the Nazis. From there it's a pretty straightforward holocaust narrative, documenting the larger more common Nazi atrocities, as well as the sadistic tendencies of the individual guards.  One of the nice parts about this work is that it doesn't end with liberation. It goes into the struggles, particularly of Spanish survivors, disowned by Stalin and identified with the Franco regime that they fought to prevent, unable to return to the land of their birth.  As far as the art, it was okay. It was nice at times but I don't think it was quite able to portray the gravity of the situations involved in the work.  Overall, this is a nice work on an underappreciated subject, but it is undermined a bit by the art.
155	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Stories based on the lives of survivors of concentation camps during WWII are aplenty, but the team of Salva Rubio Pedro J. Colombo and Aintzane Landa, deliver a compelling, page turning story about about a man trying to survive, not just for his sake, but to expose with evidence the atrocities committed during war time.  The other aspect that kept my interest is the fact of how this is not a story focused on the jews at this camps, but was centered around the spaniard prisoners behind bars for their communist ideas. This gives us another perspective on the many people that suffered during this period of time.  WWII is a time we may don't want to remember, but as a character say in the story, only the ones who lived can grasp the way to feel and how it changed them. This is tragedy that is must read, at least for the memory of those who risk everything for it to see the light.  This is a goodread.   Thanks to Salva Rubio; Drawn, Pedro J. Colombo, Aintzane Landa, Naval Institute Press, and Netgalley for the advance copy for an honest review.
156	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This graphic novel tells the story of Francisco Boix, a Spanish press photographer and communist who was sent to the Mauthausen concentration camp and found himself the confidant of an SS officer who was photographing thousands of prisoner deaths. He sees this as an opportunity to prove the horrific Nazi war crimes by stealing the negatives of these photos and exposing them to the World, at the risk of his own life and that of every other prisoner in the camp.  The depths of human strength and resilience never cease to amaze me. These things should never have happened and the majority of us will never truly understand them, but it is precisely by continuing to share these stories that we can stay alert to the horrors and perversity that people can impose on others, and prevent them from happening.  I breezed through this book and adored the art style as well. I highly recommend it to anyone.  Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for providing a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.
157	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I received an ARC of this audiobook through NetGalley in exchange for my unbiased opinion.  Francisco Boix was a Spanish press photographer who fled to France at the beginning of World War II. There, he and other communists were handed over by the French to the Nazis and sent to Mauthausen concentration camp. When the Nazis learn about his photography skills, he is put to work processing photos taken in the camp. When he is made to develop pictures of the deaths of prisoners in the camp, Francisco realizes this is his chance to share with the outside world the atrocities being committed in the camp. Knowing he is risking not only his own life but the lives of others at the camp, Francisco vows to do whatever it takes to get these photos out to the world.  This is a true story of one of the many atrocities experienced in the concentration camps at the hands of Nazis in World War II. The illustrations capture the horrors of Mauthausen, making this a powerful, moving graphic novel. This book makes me want to learn more about Boix. I highly recommend this graphic novel!
159	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	***Thanks to NetGalley for his ARC***  In this graphic novel, we follow Francisco Boix, a Spanish Communist who ends up in Mauthausen, a Nazi death camp. Due to his language and photography skills, he is taken on as an assistant to an artist wannabe Nazi who photographs the many tragic deaths of the inmates. Boix sees this as an opportunity to collect evidence of the Nazi's atrocities and goes to work trying to hide negatives and move them out of the camp. He is successful, and his photos go on to help with convictions, but he dies tragically young. This is yet another important contribution to the canon of literature that tells us varied perspectives from the second World War. Given that most concentration camp narratives are from Jewish perspectives, I appreciated the fact that this was from a political prisoner and yet another reminder of the many who were tortured and killed for their beliefs and convictions.
160	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I have read a good bit on WWII and the Holocaust, but I was not familiar with photographer Francisco Boix Campo. Upon being sent to Mauthausen concentration camp, he was given the role of photographing the prisoners who had died. He knew it was important to get copies of these pictures out to his party. This was a risky venture and along the way most of those people who were once willing to help, started to fear the risk and stopped helping. After the camp was liberated, Francisco went to get the pictures from the woman who had been keeping them for him. When he learned about the Nuremberg Trails he went there to testify about what it was like in Mauthausen concentration camp. The ending, which I will not go more into, was a bit sad. He had done so much and lost so much. I am giving this graphic novel, which had very detailed, yet sad, illustrations representing those who were in Mauthausen concentration camp a solid 4 star review.
161	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I had not before read anything about Mauthsausen or #ThePhotographerofMauthausen, Francisco Boix. I was not familiar with the Spanish people who fled to France during WWII or the reasons surrounding these events. This graphic adaptation does an excellent job of informing readers about the historical elements--including sketching representations of the photographs themselves and reflecting the actual people and events at the time. The visual elements add to the story, again enhancing the historical elements while still remaining engaging, something that some historically based graphic novels sometimes lack.  That being said, it is, of course, a difficult and emotional read due to the horrors that went on inside Mauthausen--all the while being handled with care. I recommend this book to older readers, perhaps high school, but again handling the topic with the care. Many thanks to the publishers and #NetGalley for the advanced copy.
162	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	**I was given a free digital copy of this book through Netgalley in exchange for an honest review**  When I requested this book, I was under no delusions that the contents would be painful. this graphic novel depicts a photographer, Francisco Boix, who was captured and sent to Mauthausen during World War II. This is a heavy graphic novel. On every page, there's a reminder of the atrocities carried out at Nazi concentration camps. If you are not emotionally prepared to see such details, then perhaps this is not the book format for you. The message of this book is extremely important, as are the stories of the countless survivors who lived to tell their tales. My kudos to the illustrator and author for conveying this story to the world in a manner that is polished and full of dignity. It is fitting that Francisco Boix was a photographer and his story is now being portrayed in images. This may be a bold statement, but I believe Francisco would have liked that.
165	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"The Photographer of Mauthausen is a ""retelling of true events"" and as such serves as both a compelling story and a historical reflection. I won't repeat the blurb on it, but it works both as a historical retelling or dramatization and as a story.  The story is not full of brightness and joy so the artwork also is muted and not likely to bring joy. Which is to say it works very well with the narrative. It neither distracts nor detracts from the powerful story and manages to add nuance to many of the scenes  I would recommend this to not only readers of graphic novels but also those readers who like to learn about history through dramatic retellings of real events. It may well lead you to look up more information on this aspect of the Nazi concentration camps.  Reviewed from a copy made available by the publisher via NetGalley."
166	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I hate reading about the Holocaust, I hate it hate it hate it.... but only because it makes me so angry! How could we do this to human beings? HOW??? This story tells a tale that is seldom heard. We all know about the Jews who were horribly treated and exterminated in camps, but we don't seem to get the full picture that THOUSANDS of other people of all ethnic backgrounds were also sent to death camps. This is the story of a camp that mostly housed Spanish prisoners of war, who were taken to the camps because they were communists, not fascists. The imagery is at times grotesque, as the author recreates actual photographs of the death these people saw. It is an uncomfortable read but worth reading anyway, because we need to know about these things - especially in the world we live in today.
167	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	As an educator of the Holocaust, I am very particular in regards to the materials I use in my classroom to teach such a tough subject. I purposely avoid texts that are riddled with too much violence. While I think that the violence in the story was illustrated well and necessary to the plot development, I would not use this book in a middle school classroom. However, I think this text would be better suited for high school students and would promote it as such.  I believe this is a story that often gets left behind and becomes an untold story of history. I appreciate that the author took the time to share one of these smaller, untold stories of the holocaust. I personally loved it and think it would pair well with other texts of the Holocaust for high school students.
168	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This book was very hard to look at. The images are graphic and extremely upsetting. But that is their intention--the entire book revolves around those images and how they could be used to condemn Nazi war criminals. Francisco was an amazingly brave young man who did everything in his power to get information about Mauthausen into the outside world through contraband negatives. This was a fascinating story and the less-than-encouraging ending says a great deal, not only about the world at the end of WW2, but also our world now. We still have to ask, what is more important? Retribution to make us feel less guilty or sharing the truth?  My only complaint is that the characters all looked very similar, which made it hard to figure out who was speaking. But that's honestly very trivial.
169	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Arc via Netgalley  This graphic novel is the the tale of Francisco Boix, a Spanish photographer captured by Nazis and sent to Mauthausen. The novel explores what might have happened during his time in the concentration camp and how he came to smuggle out negatives of photographs depicting the deaths of his fellow prisoners to be used later as proof against his captors.  This graphic novel is very well done. The story is compelling and the illustration style matches the tone perfectly. As a photographer myself and someone who is interested in WWII history, I appreciate the chance to learn a little bit more about the Mauthausen concentration camp and Boix's story. It's not one that I hear much about.  Highly recommend.
170	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This is an outstanding graphic novel about the power of testimony and the forms that testimony can take. Crafted with detail and attention and compellingly written, this book is an important contribution to literature about resistance and organization in WWII concentration camps, as well as an illustration on the need for historical accuracy, evidence, and documentation. This should not only be very well-received among regular graphic novel readers, but also those interested in WWII, the history of photography and journalism, and current activism. There's some swearing and of course images of the atrocities of Mauthausen, but I'd recommend this nonetheless for readers ages 12 and up. I'd love to see it taught in schools and chosen by book clubs for meaningful discussion.
171	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Narrated by a Spanish photographer, Francisco Boix, The Photographer of Mauthausen, is a gripping look at the atrocities the Spanish experienced during WWII in the concentration camp of Mauthausen, Francisco volunteered for the French army and was arrested when the Nazis invaded and immediately ended up in a level 3 work camp- no one is meant to get out alive.  The focus of this graphic novel is of Francisco working with other Spanish prisoners to get film negatives out of the camp to expose the Nazis. The artwork, drawn by Pedro Colombo, is so realistic and somber that you could almost envision what it may have looked like in these concentration camps. I highly recommend this graphic novel to anyone interested in WWII history as it is a story many would not be too familiar with.
172	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Disclaimer: I received this book in exchange of my honest opinion.  This is not an easy graphic novel to read and it stays with you after the last page too. What I liked the most is that finally Francisco Boix's life and the pictures are being shared with the world. His life mission is completed even though it is through another medium. His story gets told.  Of course, we will never be able to fully understand what he went through. Personally I still find it hard to wrap my head around it. I cannot imagine we as humans are capable of such atrocities.  The story is not overly dramatic, the art keeps a dark dull tone which I think best encompasses their feelings at the camp. A powerful graphic novel.
173	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	a graphic novel based on the story of Francisco Box, a Spanish inmate of mauthausen concentration camp, who created and rescued photographs proving the crimes against humanity committed there. the netflix-movie based on it was terrible, treating history as a buffet for narrative purposes, and should not cloud the judgement of this book. respectful treatment of history is compatible with artistic freedom, as shown in this graphic novel. All the actual historical context is expanded upon in the articles at the end of the book. The combination of entertaining narrative and factual information makes the book a valuable tool for education.
174	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"""They'll listen to us, but... They'll probably never be able to understand us.""  ""Why not?""  ""Because there are not words, no images which can make people understand something they haven't lived through. As photographers, sure, we can capture reality on film, but we can never convey to other people the atmosphere, the smell, the sunlight... Or in our case , the trials we've been through. No one can do it, Francois, no one...""  10/10.  No matter the traumas you've faced nothing can prepare you for stories like this. Being Jewish I have an idea of these things, but I'm always gravely hurt by the pain of others."
176	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This is a very well written book! Had my attention since the beginning. The illustration was excellent and holds the readers attention. Perfect for people who feel reading history is boring.  A perfect graphic novel. The horrors and hardships faced by the inmates are beyond anyone's imagination. The art work depicts the loves of these inmates. It is unfathomable and unforgettable.  Highly recommend it. Thanks to NetGalley and the Publisher Dead Reckoning for an e ARC in exchange for my honest review.
177	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This is a very powerful. Vsey touchingbstory about one of the many concentration Camps built during WWII. It tells the story of a man who lived through one, named Matuthause . A photograph in his previous life before becoming a prisoner of war, now given a job to procure photographs for his party and the rest or the world in order to expose the horrors of went on at the camp. Haunting imagery sticks the pages of this dark tale of what the worst of humanity can do. A lesson to our president and future selves to not repeat the past.
178	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"A graphic novel accounting of the wartime life of Francisco Boix, who was imprisoned at the Mauthausen concentration camp. Boix became the ""photographic assistant"" of an SS Officer at the camp and in doing so, managed to smuggle 20,000 negatives documenting both the atrocities and the visits of officers who would later claim to ""know nothing."" His photographs and testimony at the Nuremburg and Dachau trials would go on to be used as evidence to convict dozens. This graphic novel documents both his and those whose assistance he required to successfully get the negatives out bravery."
179	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Thans to the publisher for the e-arc through Netgalley.  Wow to this book! First of all, the illustrations are great because I think it set up the mood of the story. It wasn't colorful to show jolliness. It matches what the characters went through at Mauthausen.  The character was also easy, engaging, and intetesting to follow all though out what a story it is, too. I've had my share of WWII novels but this one have a unique factor to it so it did not feel like unoriginal.  I definitely recommend this book!
181	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	As Jews, forgetting about the horrors of WW2, of the Holocaust, is near impossible. But we also tend to forget that despite taking up the majority of the death toll, we were not the only victims. This book touches on one such group of people from Franco's Spain.  It's a good biographical account and the art lends to the gravity of the story and the real, horrible history of it all.  https://hercommonplaceblog.wordpress....
182	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"This was the very first graphic novel that I've ever read - and ""The Photographer of Mauthausen"" has set the bar extremely high!  This was a very powerful (and very accurate) story of surviving incredible odds; commitment; the power of photography; and the horrors of war. The novel was paced brilliantly - and the illustrations were both beautiful and haunting.  I can't recommend this one enough! Thank you so much to Netgalley and the publisher for allowing me to enjoy this one!"
183	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	**I received and voluntarily read an e-ARC from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. All thoughts and opinions are my own.**  Absolutely heartbreaking to read, but I'm glad I did. It's a short read, but I think, due to the subject matter, that works best.  The illustrations and colors help to tell the story well, although at times the font chosen for the text was a little difficult to read.
184	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This graphic novel was fascinating. I loved the art work, it was very evocative of the emotions in the story. I had heard of the story of Mauthausen, but not the specifics. This story makes me want to watch the documentary about it, to find out more details. I feel it is important for us to continue to learn about the Holocaust, and a GN is a fantastic way to get the tales out, especially one so well written and illustrated as this.  much thanks for the opportunity to read this.
185	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	An emotional account of the atrocities at Mauthausen, a Nazi concentration & work camp. The story is told through the eyes of a survivor who risked his life photographing the horrors at Mauthausen. The photos prove how the Nazi's inflicted suffering and torture onto the prisoners at the camp. This book is not for the feint of heart. Lots of pictures of dead bodies and people suffering. Important to witness and acknowledge, but can be hard for people to stomach.
186	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I got this as an ARC from netgalley. I have seen the movie on Netflix and I feel like as a comic for a high school history class this would be an amazing addition. It weaves so much information into a comic where a teenager would not feel like its so much about learning. I would definitely buy for my class room! 
187	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I received this book free from Netgalley for an honest review.  I knew this would be a messed up book when I went in. It was. I really enjoyed the artwork. I liked the dark colours. The story itself was sad and terrifying. But try and remember there’s always a hero even if in the end they don’t get exactly what they were after. I would recommend this read.
188	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Amazing graphic novel, would highly recommend to everyone. Most literature about concentration camps I end up reading are usually set Auschwitz - it was so interesting to see something set in a place closer to home (where I have actually visited as a teen).  No rating because I don't rate nonfiction, especially not people's life.
189	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Graphic novel about the Spanish photographer, Francisco Boix, who was a prisoner of war in the Nazi concentration camp Mauthausen. Boix is given the job of documenting death in photographs and works to secret the film from the camp to show the atrocities at the risk of the lives of all the prisoners. 
191	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This is another book about the Nazis and their inhumane treatment. A man's life is saved by becoming the photographer at a concentration camp. This book will hold the reader's interest. This book is based on a true story.
193	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"I found this book to be authentic and engaging. While the content was justifiable horrifying, the graphic novel gave glimpses of beauty and hope. Rubio did an excellent job in the genre of historical fiction and as a graphic novel. Colomo and Landa combined to provide an appropriate setting for the story, which was mostly stark but gripping. This would be an excellent high school reading assignment for literature and/or history. ""I received a complimentary copy of this book through NetGalley. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own."""
194	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	The Photographer of Mathausen features realistic art and historical storytelling, working in a combination to share a powerful and memorable story. I most appreciated the way this creative team incorporated factual content, and even photographs, in the narrative. Highly recommended!
196	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	A devastating description of the loss of humanity—from the prisoners whose humanity was denied, to the soldiers who destroyed, to the officials whose need to move on kept them from recognizing the truth of the atrocities of the concentration camps. Are we any better today?
201	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This is a comic book....NOT A NOVEL  I feel missled. I did not see that it was a comic book. Sounded from description like an interesting novel.
203	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This is a story that must be told. How some brave spaniards helped to provide proofs against the nazi kapos
204	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	really amazing ! highly recommand, almost cried !
209	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This story was incredible and moving. A very interesting perspective on this time. I'm glad I read it.
210	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Extremely well done, telling the story of one man of many thousands who risked everything to try to expose evil.
211	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	*received for free from netgalley for honest review* Awesome detail in the artwork for this! good thing it was an ebook and i was able to zoom in a lot though. 
213	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Sad, true story of the Holocaust. 
214	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Longer review is coming Grade 9,5/10
215	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	Horrific story told so well. It hurt to see what Francisco and his fellow prisoners went through. The colors were stark and beautiful. You really feel their pain.
220	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This graphic novel beautifully portrayed the feeling of story through its bold and moody illustrations. It felt like a mirror where all feelings of sorrow, frustration and friendship were felt like I was there in the story, almost as if I was a side character watching it all.  I think the strength of this book is really its main character. Nothing is censored and every raw emotion is portrayed. The main character created his own hope by giving himself a purpose to live. In the end, even though it didn't turn out as he hoped for, he never regretted his choice.  I had to read this book twice to really understand what the story was trying to achieve. Sometimes everything does wrap up neatly in a bow but that doesn't mean stories like these still aren't important to tell.  A received a free copy from Netgalley in exchange for my honest opinions.
221	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	 The part of the war they don't teach you in school or the history books. The holocaust was Slavery on Meth...
222	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	I requested this graphic novel on Netgalley and I'm so glad I did!  It's just heartbreaking how the protagonist of this graphic novel risks everything just so he can get the proof of what's going on out into the world. It's a grueling read since it depicts inhumane treatment of all kinds without sensationalizing or sugarcoating anything. But then things get even sadder as the proof he so painstakingly obtained fails to generate the effect that it should have!  In any case, I'd have rated the novel higher had I not experienced Elie Weisel's Night.
224	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	If you love to read historical fictions/ non-fictions then this is for you. This book is a true event retelling of Nazi -Holocaust.  Blurb - Francisco Boix, a Spanish press photographer and communist who fled to France at the beginning of World War II. But there, he found himself handed over by the French to the Nazis, who sent him to the notorious Mauthausen concentration camp, where he spent the war among thousands of other Spaniards and other prisoners. More than half of them would lose their lives there. Through an odd turn of events, Boix finds himself the confidant of an SS officer who is documenting prisoner deaths at the camp. Boix realizes that he has a chance to prove Nazi war crimes by stealing the negatives of these perverse photos—but only at the risk of his own life, that of a young Spanish boy he has sworn to protect, and, indeed, that of every prisoner in the camp.  He alongside those dead or alive war prisoners never got justice. From a war prisoner to war criminal, whom his own country expelled for doing that brave act (Crime). This true story retelling will take you to that shivering and heart wrenching rollercoaster ride of the WWII holocaust. This was my 6th Holocaust related book. Like every other German Holocaust related book, this book is also going to haunt you down, and 'How?', by it's devasted graphics and illustrations on the lives of prisoners of Mauthausen.  Thank you netgalley and publisher for this e-ARC in exchange for a honest review.
225	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	The Photographer of Mauthausen is an interesting comic about the Mauthausen concentration camp and the Spanish prisoners of it. I actually didn't know much about the Spanish or even how many were they or even why they were there, so this comic was much needed and showed another side to the war. The comic is a biographical and tells about Francisco Boix's time at Mauthausen and how he became the photographer to a Nazi officer. He helped the officer to take photos of corpses and he eventually smuggled some outside the camp, which eventually was of use at the Nuremberg trials. Still, Boix felt that no one was really interested in what happened and that's probably true. Everyone just wanted to get rid of the Nazis. The structure is good, although the comic has a bit too much just talking heads and it's very stale. This makes the story slightly boring and we don't get into the political side of it enough; with this I surely mean the Communist side at the camp.  The art works with the comic, although the line art is slightly heavy and smudgy. A tender line art would've blown air into the story. The colors are dark and stale too, but that's a good thing, since it highlights the grayness of the camp and the conditions. Rubio's comic is a different kind of comic that show's us something we probably didn't know that even existed and thus its meaning is more than the stars. I wish those photos were found...
226	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	'The Photographer of Mauthausen' is a graphic novel that puts into images an horrific passage of history, but does that through the lens of a somehow intimate story regarding Francisco, (or François, Paco) a catalan photographer that was sent to the notorious Mauthausen concentration camp. Once there, he met other spaniards and tried to prove all the crimes against humanity made by the nazis. The plan was the following: get the negatives of the macabre photos Francisco was ordered to take and make them known to the world.  There have been a lot of stories related to Nazi Germany and World War II, but The Photographer of Mauthausen manages to shine a light over a part of the story that may not be as known. The art plays a really big role in this as well, because it is sober enough to feel authentic and crude enough to describe the grotesque without hesitation. The script by Salva Rubio deserves praise as well. Based, at least partially, on a biography, manages to get the story along and lets the reader not to get lost on the horror but keep clinging to hope. Not in what we know is one of the most horrific moments in human history, but in the main character and his actions.  I highly recommend it.  ***ARC sent by NetGalley for an honest review.
227	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	At the start of WWII, Francisco Boix (a Spanish press photographer and communist) fled to France but was handed over to the Nazis, who sent him to the notorious Mauthausen concentration camp, where thousands would lose their lives.  Due to his ability to speak several languages and through his links with other Spaniards, Boix was asked to use his photography skills to help the Nazis develop propaganda photos taken at the camp. He then caught the eye of an SS officer creating photographic 'art' from prisoner deaths at the camp.  Boix realizes that although it will risk his life and the lives of others, by stealing the negatives of these perverse photos there is a chance of proving Nazi war crimes.  This graphic biography is sometimes upsetting but documents an important (and unfortunately not well-known) story from the Second World War, showing the immense bravery and sacrifice of holocaust victims who despite their dire circumstances refused to give up fighting fascism.
228	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	eARC provided by Netgalley  The Photographer of Mauthausen is a graphic novel adaptation of the life of Francisco Boix – a man I didn’t know anything about prior to picking up this work, but about whom I wish to know more now that I finished it. The comic obviously comes with a plethora of content warnings: violence and torture, concentration camps, nudity and war being the ones I can think of. The story is well-told – the artwork fits the dark and somber atmosphere and the narrative manages to maintain a feeling of hope despite the rather grim reality it portrays. It is obvious a lot of research went in the making of this comic and it shows in the details incorporated in it. My sole issue with the story is that it is told in a rather concise fashion – over the span of 100 or so pages - which was probably the reason I had trouble getting in the storyline. This comic did spark my curiosity, so I'll be looking for more resources on Boix in the future.
232	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	A heartbreaking, yet educational graphic novel about the Spaniards in the Nazi concentration camps during World War II. One brave Spaniard set out on a mission to photograph the Nazi's and find a way to get those pictures out into the world. This GN did not shy away from discussing the gruesome acts of the Nazi's and what the prisoners dealt with on a day to day basis. The illustrations were stunning, and the dark and gritty imaged tied the story together. I feel like this would be a great addition to high school library shelves.  I have received a much appreciated digital copy of this book from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
233	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"Sometimes, it is hard to reviewing a book about world war II. It kind of feels wrong to say that I love this book, and this book is amazing knowing that it is exactly the opposite way of what happened then. Surely the word ""amazing"" and ""I love it"" did not sit right. But, let me try. I have a deep appreciation for this book. I have always interested to know and read more about WWII, because growing up, I feel like my knowledge about it, is just not enough. Perhaps it will never be.  I have never heard a concentration camp in Mathausen before. So, reading this graphic novel really helps me to know more about WWII. I appreciate all the information that this book gave. The illustration are so details and are craft thoughtfully. There are some scene that actually hard for me to see. It's really heartbreaking but important read.  Truly, I appreciate those who are brave to tell stories about WWII. Thank you for telling or retelling the stories for us to read. Europe Comics, Salva, and Pedro, thank you for this book."
234	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	When World War Two broke out, France had a great many Spanish Communist expatriates who had fled Spain at the start of fascist Francisco Franco’s reign. Prior to reading “The Photographer of Mauthausen”, I was unaware of this. I was also unaware that during the Nazi occupation of France, the Spanish Communists were sent to concentration camps. This graphic novel (of which I received an advanced reader copy from NetGallley) tells the true story of such a camp, from the perspective of a prisoner who had been a photographer, and the efforts made to smuggle photos of Nazi atrocities out of the camp. A constantly compelling story, its historical obscurity gives it a heightened suspense, since the reader almost certainly will have no idea how events will unfold. In the bigger historical picture this is a small story; but that’s key to what makes it so compelling.
235	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	"I found this comic style read very informative while it read like a movie such as ""The Great Escape"". The information was new to me As I am not a comic genre reader, I am not in the least qualified to evaluate the artwork. However in my opinion the darkness of the illustrations served the true story of a dark period of history very well.,"
236	The_Photographer_of_Mauthausen	This graphic novel examines the Holocaust from a perspective that is not frequently given a voice. Communist Spaniards who fled their home country for France in the wake of Fascism only to be handed to the Nazis and placed in concentration camps.  This retelling of true events is jarring, seeing how the Spaniards were treated during and after the war. Being used and abused by the Nazis running the camp, forced suicides, horrific murders, but even still having the hope of escape. Then once they were released having been cast out by the Communist party as traitors believing that surviving the Holocaust was being an accomplice in their suffering.  Rubio and Coloumbo weave together this tragic tale in a beautiful manner. It gives life to those who never made it out of the camps. The Holocaust was horrifying for more than the Jewish community, the suffering was widespread and all of those people who endured those horrors deserve to be remembered.
238	Bohemians	"Want to know about the 'original' hipsters? Read this lovely book.  I remember being on a plane going from Knoxville, Tennessee to NYC, sixteen years old, finishing Kerouac's famous ""On The Road,"" thinking to myself, ""I didn't know that you could write like that!"" My teenage self was reacting to the complete disregard to the dominant cultural norms of Writing, and of 'respectable' culture itself, by the poets and writers of the Beat Generation like Kerouac, Ginsberg, and so forth. But Kerouac, Ginsberg, Corso, and the whole lot of Beats were the grandchildren of the 'original' Beats, the Bohemians, the heroes of this fabulous graphic history.  Edited by David Berger and Paul Buhle, retired Professor of American Civilization at Brown University and prolific writer of radicalism in the US, and most recently author of several wonderful graphic histories like A People's History of American Empire (along with the late Howard Zinn), The Beats: A Graphic History (along with the late Harvey Pekar), Wobblies!: A Graphic History of the Industrial Workers of the World , among several others, Bohemians: A Graphic History beautifully traces the long and winding history of the (mostly American) Bohemians (or bohemians, as Buhle urges us to consider in his short but sweet introduction) starting in the alleyways of Paris, crossing the shorelines to NYC, to Brooklyn, to Walt Whitman, Mable Dodge, Claude McKay, and other bohemian spirits, all guided by the fantastic artwork and story-telling of artists like Sabrina Jones, Summer McClinton, Sharon Rudahl, Nick Thorkelson, among many others. What's beautiful (both aesthetically and intellectually) about Bohemians is the way it is able to capture such a rich, varied history of such a loose yet united aesthetic cultural group (of dancers, flâneurs, artists, musicians, and their working-class and otherwise muses) so creatively and concisely, a hard feat by all means. In their distinct work, each artist brings to life each slice of this dynamic history.  As Buhle writes in the introduction, ""Landlords beware, but what made that original set of young people unique was their devotion to art, to love, and to each other, rather than to respectability and social advance."" In this time of fetishization with who-will-be-the-next-Steve-Jobs and other boring late capitalist obsessions with new efficiencies, Bohemians is an urgent and playful homage to our aesthetic ancestors who laid the groundwork for the struggle against the commodification of time, play, and life itself. A lovely, lovely book."
239	Bohemians	"A cute comic anthology of free spirits in Western Society since the coining of the term ""Bohemian"" in the 1850s. This could have been a great project if the artists had been willing to do more than a greatest BoHo hits compilation, and if the editors had cleaned up the standard cradle-to-grave narrative given to most of the subjects. Many of the chapters wallow in minute biographic details that are simply not important to their status in the bohemian community. There isn't very much that ties the individuals together except chronology, and the individuals described have lives that influenced one another greatly, but there is no sense of a lasting legacy either within the bohemian community or in the greater culture for most of these tales. Some of the selections are questionable and were obviously made for reasons of hero worship over attending to the theme of the collection. Does Billy Holiday really qualify as bohemian? If so then why not Louie Armstrong? NIna Simone? In terms of construction, the biggest failure is the chapter concerning Woodie Guthrie, which failed to give any sense of his work, his importance, his life, in favor of a grinding and incoherent array of annual panels packed with exposition. While Woodie's chapter is stilted and formulaic, there are other sections that are simply illegible and feel like wasted opportunities. The section devoted to Mabel Dodge is a good example of this: We are introduced to her, discover she is fond of sex, and then are told she knew radicals and writers. Done. What is there in this three page treatment that does not lower the bar for inclusion into the societie bohème ? Speaking of which, we are given a chapter on the cult of Trilby, but nothing on the equally formative impact of Puccini's opera in creating BoHo chic? The sections of this collection that I most admire are those that try to incorporate the artist's work into the chapter, there are a few poets and dancer chapters that are stylistically vibrant and begin to break the rigidity of this volume, but only one of them succeeds in fully escaping it. The one standout section is the narrative centered upon Alfred Stieglitz and his crucial role in making New York City the capital of 20th Century Modernism. That one lengthy chapter does what the rest of the collection fails to do, bring together a community of artists and patrons, describe their vision and their struggles for acceptance, and demonstrate why it mattered to the greater culture. Stieglitz is mostly remembered today for his astonishing photography, but his role as a promoter and champion of the modernist vision was a far more lasting achievement. Dan Steffan's contribution here is the one standout piece of this collection and deserves wider notice. All told, I liked this collection, but am not impressed with it. There was considerable potential for something greater, which was why I picked it up. Had the editors insisted upon a threading of influences, a more rigorous definition of the term 'bohemian', or the addition of any arching narrative to the collection, then this volume would have cohered. As published though, this is a rather random route through a century of nominal free spirits, many of which have a mayfly existence and no evident lasting influence. This radical underselling of the importance of these people, the general lack of curation, and the overall failure to impart a sense of importance or legacy is the largest part of my disappointment in this book."
240	Bohemians	"An anthology of stories about the many flavors of ""bohemians"" in the United States, from the late 19th century through the 1950s. Some people (Josephine Baker) and phenomena (the Greenwich Village community) will be familiar to most people, but others will not. I like dose art styles more than others, and the same for the stories, but most were wonderfully rendered in both art and words. African-American and Jewish bohemians are generously represented, as are (huzzah!) women, as well as the varied sexual orientations of many bohemians.  The Walt Whitman segments were in an appropriate quasi-woodcut style, Josephine Baker's story was illustrated in dramatic style, and ""Katherine and Pearl,"" about two African-American dancers I'd barely heard of, are portrayed with a mix of styles (including imitations of photographs) with many flavors of gracefulness in dance portrayals.  For those interested in both social history (especially the arts) and stories told in graphic form. Some sexuality and nudity portrayed visually and through words--beyond PG-13 movies, sort of a ""soft R""."
241	Bohemians	Excellent overview of the unconventional, radical lives of artists and their supporters by Paul Buhle and David Berger. It is an area that interests me and that I have a certain amount of knowledge of, yet I still learned a lot. 
242	Bohemians	"Bohemian as defined by the Oxford dictionary: ""a socially unconventional person, especially one who is involved in the arts"". This is a non-fiction graphic anthology that tells the history of ""bohemianism"" from the 1840s to the 1950s/early 60s stopping just prior to the ""Beat Generation"". Each chapter is written and/or illustrated by a different author/artist making for a varied reading experience. The book is hard for me to rate as I will relate. However, I did enjoy the book very much as an historical and biographical text of a certain type of artist during this time period. I'm well-read in Victorian and pre-WWII history so found the first part of this book familiar territory for me and mostly what I had expected from the book. Stories of the artistic type (writers, dancers, artists, poets, etc and those who supported them) that defies social conventions, gathers in salons, talks about current events with disapproval, is involved in scandal, lives without moderation and is sexually promiscuous. The book concentrates on the American scene and in this part of the book we are first introduced to Bohemian origins in artisan Paris, then move to the New World with Julia Branch, Ada Clare, Walt Whitman, Victorian suffragists with artistic bents, Gertrude Stein et al. and Oscar Wilde. This is all in keeping with the subject of the book and the Bohemian becomes recognized as someone who agonizes and suffers over their art, is sexually permissive and deviant mostly involving multiple lovers of either sex, adultery and sexual relations outside of marriage. It is also quite plain from the beginning of the text that the author is very left wing as he blatantly speaks as though being anti-Communist is a *bad* thing (?!) It is then at this point where I found the book frustrating, though I still enjoyed the material, found the historical information interesting and learned a lot of new things personally. However, the editors seem to have lost touch with the topic as the next section is all about Communists and Communist sympathizers who were artists. Does being an ultra left-wing artist make you Bohemian? Then the last part of the book is about African-American artists (mostly musicians and dancers) who of course were engaged in the Civil Rights movement. Was it socially unconventional for a black person to be fighting for civil rights? I would suggest not. I expected to find Josephine Baker here, rightly so, but Bessie Smith, Louis Armstrong, Dizzy Gillespie, Langston Hughes? So two of them were either bi. or *may* have been gay; they didn't lead flamboyant, promiscuous lifestyles. Does simply being black, an artist and possibly a closeted gay make you Bohemian. Again, referring back to Oxford's definition I think not. So in the end, I enjoyed the book as a strangely unconnected history. The information was entertaining and interesting; the comic art was well done and I knew several of the illustrators involved (Milton Knight, Lance Tooks, Matt Howarth, etc) but the editors failed to provide a clear understanding of Bohemians and prove it with specific examples. "
243	Bohemians	"   More reviews (and no fluff) on the blog http://surrealtalvi.wordpress.com/   Bohemians is a thoroughly researched history tome masquerading as a graphic novel. What would otherwise be a clever way to give a very complete history of the movement is instead somewhat muddled by the variety of different styles and heavy verbiage crowding all the illustrations. So while I greatly appreciated what the author was doing here, using a historically subversive art form (e.g., the political cartoon) to tell a story of 'subversives', I found the book a bit of a chore to troll through in order to get the unique perspective of the bohemian societies in America.  The book begins with a written preface about the origins of the term bohemians and some common misunderstandings about what it entails. The author is careful to note that this is the story of American bohemians, from the 1850s to modern times. Then we have a chapter by chapter introduction and the illustrations of the figures of the era and what was happening around them. Many different art styles are involved - from 4 panel, to single page illustrations, to full comic book panels. Each one is unique and well done but honestly very burdened by the information they have to impart. I didn't find a lot of the stories very interesting - we're talking mostly vignettes (e.g., Oscar Wilde in America).  Because a lot of the meat of the book is informative text, not dialogue, the book feels very busy and crowded. I found myself squinting quite a bit and conflicted - I wanted to enjoy the illustrations and the words but they were fighting each other. Often, in order to make a point, one illustration might just be a nurse saying, ""Veneral disease was common.....blah blah"" like a text book. It just seemed a waste of space to have both a bland picture crowding a bland fact. I imagine the author wished to present each era uniquely - and so having different artists each time would give each chapter a unique flair. But it just came off as disjointed for me - taking away from my enjoyment.  I think this is a great idea and is definitely NOT a shallow treatment of the subject. I was very impressed with the depth and breadth of the information presented. For those interested in the subject, this is definitely a 5 star book. But I feel for everyone else, it might be a bit of a troll to get through the crowded pages. I would have greatly preferred the info dumps to be done in the chapter prefaces for a couple of pages and then the illustrations/graphic work to be done afterward, highlighting special moments from the era and separating out the history text book items.  Received as an ARC from the publisher"
244	Bohemians	'Bohemians' sets out to give a history of primarily American Bohemians from around 1840 to the early 1960s. Using a variety of different artists to tell the stories of a variety of different artists and personalities. It works fairly well.  It covers a lot of ground over it's 240 pages. From early utopias centered around free love to Walt Whitman. Along the way there Jewish branches of Bohemianism and Oscar Wilde are covered. Modern art in America with Stieglitz and the Harlem Renaissance. Josephine Baker and Bebop jazz. My favorite was a 55 panel story of Woody Guthrie which featured one panel for every year of his life. It finishes with a look back by Harvey Pekar and Robert Crumb that seems to fit perfectly.  There are a variety of art styles and I liked some more than others. Most seemed suited for the stories they were telling. Some of the art in my review copy looked photocopied, and was hard to read, so I hope that got corrected in the final version. All in all a great way to tell the story of an interesting movement.  I was given a review copy of this graphic novel by Verso Books and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Thank you for allowing me to review this graphic novel.
245	Bohemians	The book was about the history and culture of the people considered to be revolutionary in some way at the end of the 19th Century - early 20th Century. The book introduced me to a whole new group of people I’d like to learn more about, like Victoria Woodhull. Although I found the topic very interesting, it was hard to read. Not because of the subject matter (that was very well-researched) but because the text and graphics were so tiny. I thought maybe it was just the size of my Kindle, but I downloaded the book on my laptop as well to see if that improved the size, but it was the same exact size. I was not able to make it any bigger. I was straining my eyes to read each comic, which made me lose interest in it very quickly, and as a result only read about 30 percent. I hope the comics will be bigger in the paper format. I am not able to accurately rate it based on these conditions, but if the comics were enlarged and I could actually finish the book, I would probably give it 4 stars. As it is, I give it 2 stars.  Disclaimer: I received this book via NetGalley in exchange for my honest review. 
246	Bohemians	I have to admit that this is not really my sort of book. I don’t enjoy reading graphic novels on the whole, but the subject matter of this one interested me, and certainly it has much to recommend it. From a number of writers and illustrators, it tells the story of “bohemians” from the 1850s to the 1960s, taking in key figures as Walt Whitman and Josephine Baker, and places such as Greenwich Village. It’s an amusing and informative glimpse into the world of musicians, artists and literary figures whose spirits ran counter to the mainstream. However, the author has used the term “bohemian” very loosely, and included people whom I would not consider to be so. Oscar Wilde, Woody Guthrie, Louis Armstrong – these are not figures that to me exemplify a bohemian lifestyle. Just being a poet or musician doesn’t automatically make you a bohemian. However, maybe this is being unnecessarily pedantic, and this “graphic anthology” is both original and unusual and well worth a look at. 
247	Bohemians	"3 STARS  (I received an ARC from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review).  ""The nineteenth-century countercultures that came to define the bohemian lifestyle spanned both sides of the Atlantic, ranging from Walt Whitman to Josephine Baker, and from Gertrude Stein to Thelonius Monk. Bohemians is the graphic history of this movement and its illustrious figures, recovering the utopian ideas behind millennial communities, and covering the rise of Greenwich Village, the multiracial and radical jazz world, and West Coast and Midwest bohemians, among other scenes.  Drawn by an all-star cast of comics artists, including rising figures like Sabrina Jones, Lance Tooks, and Summer McClinton, alongside established artists like Peter Kuper and Spain Rodriguez, Bohemians is a broad and entertaining account of the rebel impulse in American cultural history."" (From Amazon)  It took me a while to get through this book but it was interesting look at the brief history of bohemians."
248	Bohemians	"A sort of follow-up to the Beats history centered around Pekar & Pistor, this goes broader in subject and execution. Even if you have heard of some of these ""Bohemians"" (a criteria for whom is slippery at best, but often involves the pursuit of greater liberty for women and people of color) there is a lot of names to enlighten you about struggles you benefit from even if you do not know the name of some of the courageous combatants. Such an enterprise must still be selective and the subjects are considered in cursory fashion so as to pique interest. Even more significant is the breadth of the contributors. I count 10 of 22 contributors are women. There is a great diversity in the artwork employed to tell these stories, and a greater introduction to talent deserving wider recognition does not come along often. Browse and pursue, browse & pursue."
249	Bohemians	Two and a half stars. About thirty pieces here by a couple dozen storytellers and comic graphic artists tracing bohemianism from 1850s Paris to the early '60s. This is a publishing successor to The Beats, published seven years ago. Maybe, in a few years, these people will produce a similar book, Hippies, which would make the third in a series of books about the counterculture and one that I might enjoy more than Bohemians. Although interesting in parts, this book includes too many obscure figures.  Until reading this book, I considered bohemianism as a soft and friendly term that more or less described writers and artists out of mainstream society. Politically, this book tilts to the extreme left.
250	Bohemians	I had a passing familiarity with the bohemian icons profiled in this graphic history and often found the information enticed me to want to read more. However, since the sections were designed and produced in different styles, it was sometimes difficult to follow the organization of the panels, and once or twice the lettering worked against understanding. I was probably most disappointed in sections about people I had not previously heard of, whether that was because I lacked the background knowledge or the writer/artist's style worked against me would require a bit more introspection. Still worth the time as either a graphic text or for the reminders of how the bohemian can have profound influence on society. 
251	Bohemians	Interesting book. As with many anthologies, some stories are better than others. Marcel Duchamp has long been one of my favorite artists, so the bio piece about him was quite enjoyable (though nothing about his last work? Really?) I also enjoyed the final story in the book, though it's weird seeing Harvey Pekar in a story he didn't write himself. All in all, this is a fine book, with, hopefully, something to please everyone.
252	Bohemians	"I rarely read non fiction graphic novel but i'll make an exception for this one.  Josephine Baker, Walt Whitman, Langston Hughes, Thelonious Monk, Gertrude Stein & Marcel Duchamp in one book.  Civil Rights, Women Rights, Greenwich Village, Dance, Literature & Dadaism in one book.  This book is an introduction to the first ""Rebels""."
253	Bohemians	I read the book about the Beats and first and was expecting more of the same with the Bohemians, but this book was chaotic in both art and story. Difficult to follow, bouncing all over the place, abrupt ends, a lot of sentences crammed with names and places and little else -- I abandoned this early on.
254	Bohemians	I wish I had time to finish this. Fascinating subject, moves along well, and the different artists are a treat to discover. The transitions between the pieces can be a bit abrupt and it isn't a light read, but overall very well done. Recommended for fans of nonfiction graphic novels.
255	Bohemians	While I found the content interesting, the book itself was quite hard to read. The graphics were very small making it difficult to see exactly what they were saying. That said, I did learn some things about some people that I didn't know. That in itself makes this worthy of reading. 
256	Bohemians	I learned SO much from these stories, not just about the people I had never heard of, but also the ones who were already my heroes. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in history, or graphic novels. I can see this being a big hit at the library with people of all ages.
257	Bohemians	Review has been written and will post here after it posts to its original Review destination.
259	Bohemians	A strong compilation, with only a few weak pieces. Some stunning artwork and inspiring stories.
260	Bohemians	Very dense, sometimes hard to get through. Because different writers/artists some chapters are more enjoyable than others, but still great to learn so much. Overall very enjoyably informative.
261	Bohemians	Highly recommend. Entertaining, educational, fun read.
262	Bohemians	Some of the comics in this anthology are great, but too many seem to come from the 'Illustrated Wikipedia Summary' School of Non-Fiction Comics, lacking narrative drive. Most of the best parts of are loaded into the first third or half, which drew me in enough to keep going. If you'd asked me how good this book was when I was about 50-pages in, I would have said I expected to rate it 4 stars. Later I found it such a drag to read - I almost gave up a few times despite being over half, or two thirds, of the way through. I'm glad I did persist, because the penultimate chapter was about Bernard Wolfe, author of Limbo, and it was a pleasant surprise to learn a bit more about a novel and author in my to-read pile. However, overall I do not recommend this book because, despite some strong pieces, the whole is let down by its weaker parts.
263	Bohemians	Verso was running a sale on their site, so I went ahead and bought this due to my love both of Bohemians and Graphic novels. Overall, it was an interesting book, with biographical info about some people I was familiar with and people I learned about for the first time. The only issue is that there is an unevenness to each of the stories in terms of quality of the art and the research that went into the story. For example, there is an example where the cartoonist is showing the Panama Canal (P. 11) - in a story that takes place prior to the digging of the canal. Little things like that in a book about history make you wonder what is wrong about what you don’t know. That said, the extended piece on Woody Guthrie makes it worth it for me.
264	Bohemians	Quotes:  They disregarded existing laws, especially those connecting love and marriage.  Bohemians emerged as an individual or group identity contrary to the hard-working, if triumphant, bourgeoisie, dull of taste or imagination but large of bankbook.  Bohemia itself is supposed to have disappeared, at least several times, as high rents came to formerly low-rent neighborhoods where its denizens dwelled. Yet somehow it persists, or rather irregularly reappears. Not only in the US or Europe of course, but by now, almost everywhere.
265	Bohemians	"Wanted to like this more than I was able to. It is an anthology so the quality varies -- widely. Some pieces tell a story while others just illustrate a couple of highlights and call it a day. The Josephine Baker piece looked interesting but the lettering was so tiny it was hard to read. Other text-heavy pieces also had to be skipped because an ""effort/reward"" analysis did not indicate a payoff. However if you know very little about the amorphous arbitrary grouping here collected as ""Bohemians"" this anthology could be a decent introduction. "
266	Bohemians	great comics anthology. good for reading in short bursts as well.
267	Bohemians	Bohemians edited by Paul Buhle is a history of bohemian lifestyle and the key players in a graphic novel form. Buhle earned his PhD from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1975. He has been involved in a variety of organizations like Students for a Democratic Society (anti-war), civil rights and the Socialist Labor Party. He was a founding member of the New Students for a Democratic Society and a leader in the Movement for a Democratic Society. He has written for many liberal and leftist publications. Before you let the editor's background turn you off, would you really want to read a history of the bohemian movement written by Bill O'Reilly?  Bohemians covers the Unites States for a period from the utopia societies of the mid-nineteenth century through the Harvey Pekar and Robert Crumb. This graphic novel is more than a comic book. The artwork adds to the written word...more than adding it multiplies the information. The “free love” movement to the mid-nineteenth century begins the book. Yes, mid-nineteenth not mid-twentieth century. Walt Whitman's “Crossing the Brooklyn Ferry” is presented with art merging 1850 New York with modern times. There are all the heavy hitters covering art, literature, dance, jazz, interracial couples, homosexuality, and labor. Beside Whitman, Oscar Wilde, Woody Guthrie, Josephine Baker, Henry Miller, and for people in my age group, Robert Crumb and Harvey Pekar. There are many lesser known people.  Bohemians is a nice collection of individual chapters covering different sections of history and different people. The graphic work is done by different artists in chapter so there is a variety of style to help in the transition of time. The history is interesting too. The people who are outside of society are paving the way the rest us us will follow. What was once cutting edge or just considered improper or immoral then, is accepted now. It is not acceptance of “bad” things, but women's rights, civil rights, and of course art, dance, and music. Bohemians provides the reader with a good mix of education and entertainment.
268	Bohemians	Checked this book out of the library as something a little more lightweight to read than what I have been studying in school. Interesting historical graphic novel including some bohemians I was unaware of and, of course, the books they wrote that I have to find and read. Some parts of the book are better than others. The Beats only get a mere mention, which is interesting considering their work inspired a generation of new bohemians. The biographies alone of the illustrators who contributed makes for interesting reading. 
269	Bohemians	I really enjoyed reading this. There were some familiar names and faces (Jospehine Baker, Woody Guthrie, Billie Holliday, Gertrude Stein, etc.) and others I had never heard of. Each comic has a different subject, author, and illustrator. It's inspired me to read up on more of these fascinating people.
270	Bohemians	"I wrote a full review for the blog I co-run here:  https://erstwhileblog.com/2019/12/04/...  ""Bohemianism, the book argues, has always been an expansive, eclectic lifestyle more than it has been a unified and conscious movement. The artwork captures those rich and varied textures..."""
271	Bohemians	I thought this was a little disjointed in its delivery and highly selective in its content. Also, a lot of the text was just really hard to read.  I did enjoy learning a lot of history, though, and putting some faces with names.  Recommended for people with pet cheetahs.
272	Bohemians	Interesting history lesson
273	Bohemians	This was a tough one to get through - not just the content but the sheer density of writing. It was interesting but a bit obscure.
275	Bohemians	a robust history, beautifully drawn...
276	Bohemians	3.5 ⭐️ Interesting and informative. 
277	Bohemians	Solid historical anthology - I enjoyed some of the graphic novelists' styles more than others, but it was a great primer on the big players of the bohemian scene.
278	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Strong 7 out of 10  The Osamu Tezuka Story is a manga/biography about the famous and influential manga/anime artist named Osamu Tezuka. If you haven't heard of Osamu Tezuka then you've might have heard of his works. He is the creator of Astro Boy, Kimba the White Lion, The Budda Books, and many other works. This book took me around two months to finish because of the length.  930 pages!     My mother got me this book from the library. I ended up finishing it while in the midst of going camping. I thought that this was a great memoir, and they did a superb job translating it. There are definitely some spots I would cut out and I caught maybe one or two spelling mistakes, but still, I learned a whole gob about this guy, and how much of a workaholic he was.  I loved seeing his success, and how much he was dedicated to his craft. Even throughout his childhood, he was always trying to do many things, such as bug collecting. This was a very inspiring book, and now I want to read some of this guy's manga. Great read, maybe a tad too long, though.
279	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	I had always been somewhat of a a fan of Tezuka's work and grew to respect him quite a bit, as I learned more about him, but I had only scratched the surface before... this book really showed what an amazing life he had, and the depths of his creativity. I've watched a few of Tezuka's experimental anime after reading this, and will have to delve back into his books with renewed vigor. 
280	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	I did enjoy this book, although I'm not entirely certain that its breadth and length worked to its advantage. This is a brick of a text, and there Tashio Ban and the others behind this biography went to great lengths to map out almost every facet of Tezuka's life. At times to the narrative's detriment. There are times when situations and attitudes feel repeated and/or too decompressed. What's more, the book emphasizes the admirable and impressive side of Tezuka, making him appear to be more god-like than human. That tended to grate after awhile.  On a logistics level, this big book was also a small discomfort to read. Had it been hardcopy, it would have been a tad heavier, but definitely easier to hold over a sustained period.
281	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	What a rollicking breathtaking ride through the life and times of manga no kami Tezuuka sensei. Not to be missed. Walt Disney has nothing on him. A qualified doctor, musician, actor. Truly a renaissance man. Yes he does manga and sort of rocketted anime into the stratosphere.
282	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Quite the ambitious project undertaken just after Tezuka's death in 1989. Starting with his youth and school years, we are given a glimpse into wartime Japan and how that impacted elementary and middle school students. After the war, Tezuka began attending medical school and kept up his drawing, getting into manga through publishers first in Osaka and then in Tokyo. His passion had always been animation, so we see him working to get into that field and all the success he had in both manga and anime throughout his life.  As interesting as the first part (early and wartime years) is, the second part offers a history of manga and anime. Many luminaries from manga are introduced when their involvement with Tezuka is shown. Not having access or the historical background in Japanese publishing, I can only assume that notable authors/artists are mentioned those mentioned by name.  Tezuka was a hard-working man in both manga and anime, and also tended to overextend himself with his many concurrent projects. This is a constantly recurring theme and tended to get dull and boring. Whole blocks of pages were dedicated to Tezuka ducking out on the manga editors waiting outside his door for the pages he's promised them, finding a hotel in which to work undisturbed, and the hunt by the editors to find him in order to get their pages by their deadlines. Or, as a variation, editors taking out a hotel room for Tezuka to work on their material and leaving the other editors to hunt for them. And so on and so on and over and over.  Teuzuka's passion for manga, anime, the telling of good stories, and his dedication to exploring the themes of life and the human condition comes through clearly.
283	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	5 stars from me. Basically, if you're into manga and want to make it, this is going to resonate much more. So for others it might be like a 2.5-3 star read. Even for me it got a little repetitious at times but... that's accurate to the process, and emphasized how much this man crammed into his 60 years. He died pretty young, but dang did he not waste a second. An inspiration, bar none. Thank you, Dr. Tezuka.  Spoiler: the last 25 pages are a list of his works. 25 PAGES, SMALL PRINT. In my opinion, this was a perfect way to end the book.
284	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	At over 900 pages, this is unquestionably the thickest manga volume I own. For the moment. Knowing manga, it wouldn't surprise me if a thicker volume of something comes along someday.  As you'd surmise from the title, this is a biography of manga legend, Osamu Tezuka, in manga form. I was aware of his legendary status, and have read what I assumed was a fair amount of his work over the years. Little did I know ... I knew he was prolific, but wow! Kodansha issued a complete collection of his work in Japan that ran to 400 volumes. He was also deeply involved in animation, producing a number of shorts and feature length films, only a few of which I'd heard of, but all of which I now want to see. He was an incredibly fast artist, capable of cranking out up to 32 pages per day! He was almost single-handedly responsible for the post-WWII rise in popularity of manga, and certainly left an indelible stamp upon the industry.  I cannot recall the author, but many years ago I read an article in The Comics Journal that stated that all of the world's major comics industries possess a single visionary creator to whom much of their current form can be traced. In the USA, it was Jack Kirby. In Europe, it was Hergé. And in Japan, it was Osamu Tezuka. As a Tezuka fan, I found this book fascinating. Hopefully you will as well.
285	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	If you've never read any Tezuka, go read some and then read this book. It's wonderfully thick and written by a close friend with many excerpts from Tezuka's personal writings. Tezuka was an absolute genius and an extreme workaholic. Ban explains that was partly due to production schedules and working for many, many publications at the same time, but it's still impressive to watch someone create for 16-20 hours a day. Tezuka also earned a medical degree and worked as a doctor until his manga and anime work forced him to focus on that career. All the art is in Tezuka's signature style and exact quotations have citations within the text. Mustachio is your guide through this amazing journey, which concludes with an astounding bibliography of manga and anime works compiled by Tezuka's archivist, Haruji Mori. (I printed the lists for experimental animation and theatrical feature animation in hopes of working through them.) In addition to being an inspiring creator, Tezuka also shines through Ban's manga biography as the compassionate and caring man he was to his family, his friends, his employees, and even his competitors. Much love, Tezuka, and thank you for sharing your stories.
286	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Real rating: 7.3/10 Not for everyone, this distinct biography pays homage to the great Tezuka with care (though at times it feels a little too positive and dances by his negative qualities,) creating a biography that is drawn in a manga style for a man who could never stop drawing. It is quite slow paced and could have been cut down by roughly a 100 pages, but if you are a fan of manga and the notion of an artist who is dedicated to their works (i.e. Picasso, Asimov or others of that ilk.) I would not recommend for anyone not already interested in the world of manga or those who are expecting any action as you will be reading a book that shows a man working for 800 pages.
287	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	No wonder they called him a God
288	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	This is an impressive work in that it ties together Tezuka’s many manga and animation works and his writing about manga/animation to tell a story of his entire life in manga form. However, reading it is exhausting. I suppose its to be expected because Tezuka Productions published this book, but one of the reasons it took me so long to get through is because it starts to feel like Tezuka propaganda. No attempt is made to show Tezuka as a character or a person, simply as a “god of manga.” The book falls into a repetitive pattern of “Tezuka won this award, then he came up with more ideas and kept working on anime and manga simultaneously, sleeping very little.” Repeat ad nauseum. Yes, this is the true story of Tezuka’s life and work, but sometimes the truth doesn’t make for a very interesting story. There’s little to no discussion of how this affected his staff or editors, they’re all “tired” but excited for the genius’ next work and repeatedly tell the reader how happy they are just to work with Tezuka. The translator/publisher also uses some unusual writing conventions I find distracting, especially using an apostrophe when the first word of a sentence is left off in dialogue, for example: “ ‘Guess hard workers have to eat a lot!” The dialogue is completely understandable without the apostrophe so it looks strange and unprofessional to have it included. The text also has distracting bolding of seemingly random words, which is in keeping with the style of American superhero comics but which I find distracting and irritating, making every line of text appear sensationalized. I’m curious how much of this is the publisher/translator and how much of this could be coming from the writing style of the Japanese.  If you want an exhaustive slog through Tezuka’s entire catalog of writing, this may be an enjoyable work for you, but if you’re interested in learning about the history of manga, I would read the first half, compare with Shigeru Mizuki’s experiences in Showa, and then stop.
289	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Since I was small, my mom told me the famous osamu tezuka. I didn't show intrest to his art till 12. but When I did I was supprised, and I searched what kind of guy osamu tezuka was. And I was able to find a very interesting story behind him, such as using blook as a red paint which I find it crazy but shows dedication to the art. When I read this book I figured more about him, and uderstood more about life in that time era as an manga writer. And I never thought he would have a weird obsticals that a lots of people wouldn't go through which I found it very interesting. after I read this book I read one of his manga and my perspective toward the art he drew changed, and I will like to read this book again to refresh the memory of osamu tezuka as the best japanses manga artist again.
290	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	"Overall, an excellent insight into Tezuka's life's work. He had incredible passion and imagination, and the amount of work he produced is staggering; this book largely focuses on that. The artwork is consistently fantastic, and very true to Tezuka's style.  However, there are a few flaws. There's a lot of name dropping, which is confusing at times, especially with no context other than ""oh hey these people were involved."" I understand that this is a translation, so perhaps these names mean more to a Japanese audience. There's also a lot of repetition. Given the length of the volume, perhaps this would be helpful to the average reader, but having read it over several days, it was a bit monotonous. There is so much focus on the work he produced, but very little insight into these works. Yes, the amount he produced is astronomical, but it would have been helpful to include a few more details on his most well known series', such as Astro Boy and Jungle Emperor. The editing on the English edition is poor; I found many typos throughout the book. The book is overly sentimental; negative things are mentioned but quickly shoved aside.  That being said, it was an enjoyable, engaging read. Recommended for fans who are already familiar with some of Tezuka's work."
291	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	I read this knowing little or nothing about manga, anime or Tezuka. He was an amazing talent and he lived during an interesting time in Japan's history. I most enjoyed reading about his early life and events that shed light on Japanese culture and opinion at the time. Once he started his career, things got less interesting for me. I'm sure part of this is because his innovations didn't mean much to me but also because the references to all nighters and constant working got a little repetitive. It's pretty amazing how much work he actually did, and how he could work on multiple stories simultaneously.  I was intimidated at the book's size when I first picked it up, but it was a quick read. The harder part was physically holding this giant book in my hands while I read it. I also appreciate that they kept the right to left orientation of the book even though it broke my brain a little.
292	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	This book was immense, encylopedic, Tezuka-style illustrations. Immensity and repetiveness owe themselves to its first incarnation as a serialized story which commenced publication almost immediately after Tezuka's death. It is a window into his world, at times almost too much so (I don't particularly care how many times he moved his studios!), but also a nice overview of 1) his young life, 2) his manga heyday, and 3) his innovations in anime creation and production! Unfortunately it doesn't dig too deeply into the often kooky and generally deeply fascinating themes of his works (robots! space! phoenix! unparalleled pillow shots! monsters! crossdressing!) but....can someone write that book? I'd read that too. As a Tezuka fan, this was totally worth it, as a regular Joe on the street this would mean pretty much absolutely nothing.
293	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	As I grow up, my dad would show me some of Tezuka's work, either movies or anime or the most original ones, manga. My dad even bought the whole collection for one of his famous works, blackjack. Even until now, it is my favorite title for the artist. This book is in my opinion, only for those who read Tezuka's manga and are actually passionate about it. With the book being quite long, I feel like it really takes a lot of time and energy to really completely enjoy the beauty of it. It talks not only about the work that he has done but also his career as a whole. I really enjoyed this book as this book gave me an insight into how one of my favorite manga is made.
294	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Follows not only Tezuka's career but offers a history of manga and anime in Japan as well. Holy workaholic, Batman. Stories poured out of this man so relentlessly that he worked almost 24 hours a day his whole life. His creativity was so impressive but this seems such a dangerously unbalanced way of living. One of the things I've always loved about Tezuka's works is his politics - such a huge focus on human rights and equality, and ecology. I wish this work had explored the roots of this a little more. A fascinating man and a great manga biography. 
295	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	It will build up your arm muscles just holding this book. It was interesting but the repetitive nature of the book got exhausting after a while. Also with just a focus on his manga and anime work meant that there was little understanding of him as a person bar him being obsessive and having an incredible work ethic. 
296	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Excellent read if you ever want to learn about the man who made anime what it is today and a pioneer of manga. He was an icon similar to Disney. This book gives us a lot of details about what made this man the best there was from his time as a child to the old man traveling the world. 
297	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	I grew up with Tezuka Osamu's manga and anime. Safe to say that I learned my Japanese through manga and Osamu's mangas were by far the most influential in my early youth. Listening to the Tetsuwan Atom theme song as a child gave me a Sense of Purpose as a Purveyor of Social Justice. Grandiose thoughts for a five-year old foreigner in Japan. The stories always felt real. The endings were tragic, invoking complicated emotions for a child, yet still enough for us to understand the moral of the story. What I didn't realize until reading the book was how much he had accomplished way before the 80s.  Osamu grew up in the affluent neighborhood of Takarazuka in West Japan, near Osaka. He was curious and into bugs, but wartime Japan shaped his childhood. Even during the war, he had teachers who were supportive of his mangas, which bolstered his confidence. I didn't know that he was a medical doctor and a Ph.D. holder - he would create manga for publishers during his medical school.  The book shines a light into the crazy work ethic of manga writers. Meeting multiple deadlines required all-nighters that stretched Osamu's 40+ year career; this may be one of the reasons for his passing at the early age of 60. The intense level of competition in the manga creation amongst him and his contemporaries led to the premature passing of one of his rivals.  Osamu was always nurturing and encouraging younger talent. It took him a while before he started hiring assistants, but that would never reduce his work hours. He slept rarely; three hour days were the norm. His assistant and teams followed suit. Around an eighth of the book was dedicated to showing how editors chased after him. Editors would chase him and his peers for copies of the script ahead of the deadline. They would even book rooms in hotels, trap the manga creators there until the story was complete. Editors following Osamu would have to kiss their family lives goodbye.  He seems to have been a good leader. Hardest on himself, but expecting the highest quality of his entire team. He worked hard printing out manga after manga to create cash to fund his anime aspirations. He was indeed a visionary and influenced the creation of new technology to convert his ideas into art.  Gone too soon, but modern Japan is blessed to be influenced by him.
298	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Warning: I really probably mistakenly insert westernized views and terms into this review.  Very long and encyclopedic graphic novel biography about Osamu Tezuka, the godfather of manga and anime. The first part of the book was the most interesting, covering his formative years and adolescence, his early interest in entomology, his seemingly preternatural gifts at storytelling. Even in grade school (westernized word), his ability to make up stories on the spot and entertain his friends was acknowledged by students and instructors alike. As the book moved on into his second part and his development of manga, his inveterate workaholic nature was prevalent. He was producing serialized manga for no fewer than five magazines, and developing ideas for stories, and attending medical school, completing all with honors. He was also compulsively going to the movies (a goal of 365 per year). However, the third part becomes repetitive. And after he meets his wife and starts a family, his round the clock working and focus on his manga and his films and his research to the neglect of his family caught up with me. The book becomes a cycle of Dr Tezuka producing an astounding volume and quality of work, always working, never sleeping, and his work being developed and revered for the genius that it was. However, it becomes tedious. I'd rather read his work (especially Buddha, one of my favorite graphic novel series), than read about him creating his work.  Some interesting facts of his life, however: he was one of the first people Kubrick reached out to in developing storyboard concepts for life in space for 2001. (Tezuka was too busy to accept.) He was compulsive and obsessive about Disney and all animation techniques, reportedly seeing Bambi 80 times in the theater. And he only met his idol Walt Disney once, at the 1964 World's Fair, for about five minutes.  Perhaps it's my westernized viewpoint creeping in, but I just wanted him to spend some time with his family, to take his family with him on his trips. But that's probably a cultural projection. 
299	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	"The Osamu Tezuka Story: A Life in Manga and Anime is a biographical graphic novel written and illustrated by Toshio Ban and translated by Frederik L. Schodt, it traces the life of Osamu Tezuka in a form that he is known for – a manga in a graphic novel format.  Osamu Tezuka was a Japanese manga artist, cartoonist, animator, and film producer. Born in Osaka Prefecture, his prolific output, pioneering techniques, and innovative redefinitions of genres earned him such titles as ""the father of manga"", ""the godfather of manga"" and ""the god of manga"".  Osamu Tezuka, creator of such characters as Astro Boy, looms like a colossus over Japanese comics and animation. His manga biography is fittingly massive, dramatizing the artist's life. As a boy in the city of Takarazuka, Tezuka draws comics, devours science fiction, and becomes a lifelong fan of his town's famous all-female theater. He enrolls in medical school, but a cartooning career beckons. From there, much of the narrative consists of Tezuka drawing feverishly while editors prowl outside his studio waiting on deadlines.  The Osamu Tezuka Story: A Life in Manga and Anime is written and constructed rather well. The narrative is a tad repetitive, but the graphic novel captures its subject's tireless genius throughout World War II, the lean postwar years, and the emergence of Japan as a superpower. The artist, Tezuka's longtime assistant Ban, draws in an accurate recreation of Tezuka's style, although not quite able to match the easy fluidity of the master.  All in all, The Osamu Tezuka Story: A Life in Manga and Anime is a wonderful biographical graphic novel about Osamu Tezuka – the God of Manga."
300	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Book Name = The Osamu Tezuka Story: A Life in Manga and Anime Pages = 900 Author = Toshio Ban Genre = Biography Source = Library Book  Was very happy to get this (in brand new condition) from the library here in USA.  As an Indian born & brought up in central India childhood of the 80s & 90s, then working during the 2000s, Japan loomed large on the subconscious of my generation. Partly as the automobiles manufacturers (scooter & car) (Honda, Suzuki & Kawasaki) partly as the animation creators (Jungle Book aired on national TV) & partly as the cute tourists of the Buddhist shrines of Sanchi, Sarnath & Gaya. But it was Children of Heaven (the Japanese war movie) Narutu (anime) & then Doraemon (anime) & Shin-Chan (anime) which brough my first exposure to Manga. Simultaneously stumbled upon the Buddha-Vol1 to 8 by Osamu Tezuka blew my mind.  And to be able to read his life-story and that too in his beloved manga format was just the best year-end gift.  This is a amazingly well-drawn, written account & made me realize many important things about the great Osamu Sensei:- 1) A gifted child, born in 1928 in Osaka Japan to educated, loving nurturing parents amidst music, books, poetry, camera 2) Very progressive & encouraging parents who let him pursue Medicine, Music (he knew to play piano & accordion) and do manga stories from being a toddler 3) Was a GIANT force in terms of producing MANGA (workoholic, all-nighters) producing 8 pages @ day 4) Carried his work everywhere - in the car, in the flight, in seminars 5) Watched 1940's Disney's BAMBI a 100 times, packing lunches to be able to watch is non-stop 6) Great team-work & voluminous output himself. 7) Produced one of the first animation as well for ASTRO BOY 8) Did Manga non-stop till the end, in between Anime, mascots of games, govt. duties, foreign trips 9) Used to read a lot & watch movies often to get cracking with stories & new ideas all the time 10) Made Japan a Manga Super Base 11) Drawn all of these on paper using pencil & pen. Wish he had lived another 20 years at least, to have seen the advent of PC, internet & Phone & the transformation of manga drawings now using Tablet, PC & digital-art Phew! What a phenomenal person.
301	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	You are a Tezuka fan? Read it ! You're a manga fan and want more historic background? Read it. Some 870 pages on the life and works of Tezuka and the history of manga and anime in Japan. Add to that some 40 pages listing the works of Tezuka. A hefty volume. Why only 3 stars, eventhough I really enjoyed it? Probably because my attention dropped at several places in the book. Tezuka was a workaholic, it didn't matter what he did (writing, drawing, leading a company, playing music etc.) he was good at everything (he was also a doctor!). So getting to read that he worked all night for several days at a time for the umptieth time does not much add to the story. I would have liked to see more about his personal life (maybe non existant as he was always working? So how did he managed to have children :^) AND ! I would like to have more information on the background of his ideas/series. Why the Buddah, why Black Jack, where did the idea for Ode to Kirohito come from? In the book Astro boy, Black Jack, Buddah, Phoenix etc. are mentioned, leaving out several other works which are as good as these. So.... good book, worth reading, here and there unbalanced (fortunately as a reader you can skip pages if you want, read your rights), informative. p.s. Did Tezuka have an eye problem? During the book he is so often depicted winking, that I concluded that something was not right with him :^)
302	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	This is a biography of Osamu Tezuka written in manga format, and covers his entire life, from being a schoolboy before WWII to becoming the acknowledged 'god of manga.' To say this biography is exhaustive would be an understatement. Unfortunately, it is also exhausting. I enjoyed this book a great deal, but the level of minute detail makes it feel as if we are following every single minute of Tezuka's life. There is a huge amount of repetition about how incredibly hard-working Tezuka was, always taking on many projects at once, hiding from editors, working nonstop to create promised pages, and pushing the limits of himself and his employees. I would suggest that this book could have been halved and it still would have included plenty of depth to make its points. However, it is clear that Tezuka was a creative powerhouse who had endless original ideas and who paved his own way while acknowledging his influences, particularly Walt Disney and some of the earliest manga artists.  If you are obsessed with Tezuka and the history of manga, this might be the book for you. For the more casual reader, though, I would suggest simply getting your hands on any of Tezuka's own renowned works (Astro Boy; Black Jack; Buddha; Dororo; Princess Knight; to name a few) and discovering his pioneering talent and vision for yourself.
304	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	A 900-page manga biography of Osamu Tezuka created by someone that worked for him can't help but be a hagiography, but it's still a fascinating read about a man who could not stop creating until he was dead. Serialized weekly at the time of its publication, it's principally an educational narrative about what Tezuka did and the people he met, with very little analysis.  I think Tezuka should have done a little less work, slept more than 3 hours a night and not forced his staff to do 24-hour shifts (It's mentioned in passing one of them died while working), but hey, that's just me!
305	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	This is an incredible thing to say, but this book is a full five hundred papes too long.
306	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	I'm a big Tezuka fan and I really thought it was a good idea to capture Tezuka's life in manga. But I stopped reading at about 80%. For me, it contained too many details and repetitions.
307	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Really enjoyed it. I knew nothing of osamu previous to reading except that I grew up watching astro boy. I really enjoyed this story, epic. I honestly didn't think it was too long.
308	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	insightful and inspiring story about the legend
309	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	"""Cartoonist Toshio Ban pulls off this manga biography beautifully. One of Tezuka’s chief assistants for years, he can imitate his boss’s style when he needs to but brings his own flair to the work. Ban keeps the energy high, moving us through Tezuka’s life at a pace as fast as Tezuka himself. The story was originally serialized, which means that there are several check-in points and some repetition. I found this incredibly helpful, actually. This wasn’t a comic I could read in one sitting, so I appreciated the landmarks along the way."" - Zack Davisson  This book was reviewed in the March/April 2017 issue of World Literature Today magazine. Read the full review by visiting our website:  https://www.worldliteraturetoday.org/..."
311	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	This comic was discussed on Secret Stacks Episode 19.
312	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	While the historical background of the manga and anime industries in Japan is interesting, there is far too much repetition resulting in a tedious read over 900+ pages.
313	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	An amazing biography in manga that shows the productivity and personality of Dr. Osamu Tezuka.
315	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Weighing in at nearly 900 pages, it is the biggest book I ever read. It could likely be half as long. It repeats over and over Dr. Tezuka's perpetual trauma of being hounded and goaded by editors, liking keeping up a pace by which he died at 60. The book portrays this as an almost necessary delight for Tezuka, though. Still, I enjoyed getting a graphic description of the life of this great man as I have so enjoyed his manga, discovered thanks to wanting to read parallel with my son. The consistent nod to manga post-WWII history and those who circled around and through Osamu Tezuka's life is important. I wish I knew more of the artists the book refers to throughout. I am proud to have taken this book out of the culturally-specific sections on the fifth floor of the central King branch of the downtown San Jose Public Library.
316	The_Osamu_Tezuka_Story:_A_Life_in_Manga_and_Anime	Didn't finish. Although beautifully illustrated, content got repetitive and too focused on his life's minutiae; will test the will of all but his diehard fans
317	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	The Stars of History: Charlie Chaplin is a great graphic novel following the famous actor.  I think this is a great way to introduce some famous people to those who haven't heard of them before. Charlie Chaplin's life is truly interesting to follow. The man grew up in poverty and became one of the most famous actors of all time. He's a legend, and this book shows some truly hilarious scenes in its illustrations to show you how amazing he is.  I wish there was more of his life. His life is very tumultuous and he wasn't always the nicest person. I felt like this story went into the good more than the bad. I also feel like not everything in the book was exampled in the best possible way. I wasn't sure who some of the people were, which made reading it a little annoying. But then some of this book explained too much what was going on when you literally have pictures showing you... It was odd.  I do think it's great to use graphic novels to share non-fiction tales though. Biographies being graphic novels is one of my new favourites!  Two out of five stars.  Thank you to NetGalley and Europe Comics for providing me a free copy of this book in exchange of an honest review.
318	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Who doesn't like Charlie Chaplin? The man was a comic genius, born in London in 1889 and spent much of his early life living in poverty. An English comic actor, filmmaker, and composer who became a world icon in the era of the silent movies. A career that spanned over 75 years and recognised with a knighthood. This PDF is a comic, full of humour offering a look at the legend of the silent screen. Started life living in poverty but in later life made his fortune in America. This type of media is not really my bag but was entertaining all the same but left me wanting to read a more comprehensive look at the life of the legend Charlie Chaplin.   I would like to thank both Netgalley and Europe Comics for supplying a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
319	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	This is a very informative biography of Charlie Chaplain in graphic novel form. I had no idea how hard his life was before stardom. Of course, I also only had a small idea of how problematic he was as a person when it came to his relationships. Yet, he did a lot of good work. He was a paradox and now I want to learn more.  This unbiased review is based on a complimentary copy provided by the publisher.
320	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	He really liked minors, huh?  ⭐⭐½
321	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"I already knew the story of Charlie Chaplin and his life; I was blessed to have a teacher in High School that loved all things movies and music and radio and in one his classes, we had a three week block of nothing but Chaplin. We watched his movies, talked about his life and then we each wrote a paper on him [this was just one of many ""stars"" we studied. I loved this class]. It was a very enlightening time as we also learned about ""McCarthyism"" and just how pervasive that was and how absolutely damaging it was to so many people.  This graphic novel was a wonderful refresher course for me and for anyone who wishes to learn about the great man, this is a stellar introduction to him and his life and films. The artwork by Bruno Bazile is top notch, as is the translation by Dan Christensen. I was thoroughly captivated throughout the whole read and would absolutely pass this on to any new [or old] film buff. I can only hope that this trio works together again as they really accomplished something wonderful here.  Thank you to NetGalley and Europe Comics for providing the ARC in exchange for an honest review.   "
322	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	I’ve watched the motion picture Chaplin many times. This graphic novelization of Charlie Chaplin’s life provided details that were neither in the movie nor known by me. Maybe they both played with his historical life. While this is in graphic form, many of the details of Chaplin’s life would not be appropriate for young school-aged children. Older high-school students MAY be able to appreciate his accomplishments, without focusing on the more “sordid” aspects of his life. I won this copy in NetGalley and review every item I win or buy.
323	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Swysen Bernard uses the graphic novel format to provide a relatable biography of Charlie Chaplin, the British movie star and director who used his character of The Little Tramp in so may ways. Bernard does not shy away from looking at the warts of the actor's legacy along with his triumphs and legacy. A nice concise biography.
324	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	I received an ARC through NetGalley from Europe Comics. This graphic novel memoir illustrates the life of Charlie Chaplin from childhood through death. The art was well done, but the text was heavy.. Charlie lived a long and ambitious life that I've always found quite interesting. This memoir was like reading the CliffNotes for his life and it left a lot of questions unanswered. We did get to see a loveable child evolve into a bit of a pretentious artist, but I would have preferred in this format if the author chose to focus on a specific time period with more respect for the format. Overall, it was ok for those wanting to learn about Charlie and be boosted to read more about him. Fine for a young adult audience, as they kindly glossed over his indiscretions in love.
325	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	From the cover to the final cell, this “The Stars of History” issue exudes the comic pathos of Charlie Chaplin’s life and work. Bruno Bazile’s artwork draws the eye from scene to scene with fluidity and passion. Swysen’s text, while perhaps a bit dense in spots, gives a legitimate biography in comic book form. I was only a couple pages in when I relaxed and settled into the nostalgia of losing myself in a good comic book. There were a handful of moments in which the magic faltered; however, considering the tall order of not only conveying the long and eventful life of Chaplin in text and image, but also achieving the desired effect in translation (the work of Dan Christensen), it’s safe to say that this collaboration is a real success.  Thank you to Europe Comics and NetGalley for an Advance Review Copy in exchange for an honest review.
326	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	An interesting and easy to read biography  Key words: Charlie Chaplin, The tramp, biography, graphic novel  This biographic graphic novel explains the life of Charlie Chaplin and how he came to be this famous person we all know. I found it really interesting and, even though I knew the character, I learnt many things about the man behind. The drawings were quite nice but, as Charlie grows and ages through the pages, I was sometimes lost as to who is who. Moreover, there were some characters that did not get any descriptions, so it was a bit difficult to understand what role they were playing in the story. Therefore, that’s why I am not sure the drawing worked well with the narrative. Apart from the sometimes-unclear drawing, the narrative was really nice and easy to read. It gave me the desire to see more of his movies. This comic is part of a series of biographic graphic novel about famous people so maybe I’ll try to read the other ones too as it was quite a nice read. Overall, if you want to learn about Charlie Chaplin in a quick manner, this comic is for you. Thank you Netgalley for the eArc in exchange of my honest opinion  3.5/5 
327	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	I love the films starring The Tramp, but looking at Charlie Chaplin's life story I can't help but cringe. Somehow his pedophile behaviours were overshadowed by his genius, and he was hailed as a great person. Also he was a tyrant filmmaker, and he undermined other artists' creativity.  As for the graphic novel itself, all I can say is that the illustrations were great.
329	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"Biographical comics can only be a good as the life they are telling, and there is at least one advantage in doing Chaplin that it is a long life full of incident. The problem is that the incident is often quite disparate, and has little narrative cohesion. The book here is split pretty clearly into three thirds, childhood (misery and discovering talent), The early Tramp years (interesting but Chaplin slowly becoming increasingly dislikable), and the rest of his life - lots of philandering, marrying young girls and his political problems in the USA. The book takes as read that he was a genius so therefore has to try and tiptoe around ""Bad Charlie"", Paulette Goddard in particular is given short shrift, But hey, this is a French project translated into English - there is a sniff of ""Thank Heavens For Little Girls"" across the work.  In plain terms it succeeds in telling the broad strokes of Chaplin's life, and as a visual medium manages to get across some of the appeal of the Tramp. The likenesses are sketchy though, there is a certain European art style (small noses - serious) where most of the faces are pretty similar within their age range - luckily once the Tramp moustache goes on Charlie is easy to identify. But it needs a lot of expository work to note Gloria Swanson, Douglas Fairbanks or Mary Pickford - all of whom look a lot more generic than their famous faces would demand. There is also no real attempt to capture much of the dynamism of the characters, there are panels where they talk about Kid Auto Races, but never show it properly, and there are very few signature Chaplin visuals captured here (the only obvious one is the shoe eating from the Gold Rush). Showing the giant cogs to illustrate the cost of the the production of Modern Times is fine, but why wouldn't you also show the shot they were built for., The expository dialogue is pretty non-stop too - the opening panel is someone reading out loud ""Today, April 16th 1889, the wife of Mr Charles Chaplin gave birth to a handsome baby boy!"" - and continues very much in that vein. It ends up a bit like a less funny Horrible Histories, name dropping and fact dropping through the piece.  Its an interesting project, but despite decent art and hitting all of the notes, it cannot really explain why Chaplin became such a huge star (this is not a problem restricted to this book, it is a broader issue as we move away from his moment of global celebrity). This 80 page graphic biography will be useful as a primer to his life, and I doubt there is anything factually wrong here. But I am not quite sure who it is for, and if you will learn more reading this than a scan of the Chaplin Wikipedia page.  [NetGalley ARC]"
330	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"| Read on Reader Fox |    ""The music shouldn't compete with the image, but instead must be a counterpoint of grace and charm.""  I'm beginning to realize that biographical graphic novels can be a really hard sell when it comes down to it. As much as I adore Chaplin and as excited as I was to read this, The Stars of History: Charlie Chaplin wasn't great. Author Bernard Swysen and illustrator Bruno Bazile really did their best, of course. But, at the end of the day, this book had a lot of issues, some more difficult to solve than others.  A Biography as a Graphic Novel  Part of the problem with this book ties directly into the fact that it's a graphic novel in the first place. With each new book that I read in this format, I find myself realizing that it's incredibly difficult to tell someone's life story in this way. There are a lot of things you have to account for and adapt and if you don't do it the right way, it all kind of falls apart.  Charlie Chaplin, unfortunately, suffers in a similar way that the one I read about Albert Einstein did.  Too Much in One Novel  Something I've noticed with biographical graphic novels is the ones that try to tell an entire life story usually fail. In my experience, if this is the type of story you're looking to tell you really need to split it up into several books and focus more-so on the really important aspects of their life. In a similar vein to Einstein, this Chaplin has the misfortune of following Chaplin from birth to death.  And there's just far too much in a lifetime, especially one as full as Chaplin's to fit into a single volume. As a result, we get a lot of time spent with Charlie as he is growing up--which is great, mind--but it all ends up tapering off as he is an adult. The author had to rush through many moments of his life in order to fit in all the events that he wanted. And the book suffers for this. it would have been infinitely better if this had been split into multiple volumes and followed a similar pattern to that of Irena.  Namely, Swysen should have chosen big and important events from various stages in Chaplin's life and focused singular volumes around those moments.  Show, Don't Tell  I never thought I'd have to say this about a graphic novel, but damn did this book have an exposition problem. It's deeply ironic to me that this happened because the whole purpose of a graphic novel is to have the visuals there for you. You don't need to tell the reader things because you have one of the best tools for showing them possible. And yet, for some insane reason, Swysen thought was necessary to have this overlaying commentary telling the readers everything that was happening.  This honestly just kind of blew my mind and I'm still a little baffled by it. There were far too many instances of this and it just got so ridiculous after a while.  That said, the show part of this graphic novel was pretty fantastic. I loved Bazile's artwork. Not only was it excellent, but the continuity over time and the subtle differences that you saw in Chaplin as he aged was exceptional. I had a lot of fun with the visuals and getting to know the characters this way. In fact, this was probably the best part of it all.  So, There You Have It  And that's really what it comes down to. Biographical graphic novels are incredibly difficult and should probably be split into parts. This one, in particular, really needed to cut back on all those moments of exposition in which shoving information into the readers' faces somehow seemed necessary. There are a lot of different ways that Swysen could have given us that information without being very tell-y about it.  In the end, I wanted to love this, but I can't help feeling disappointed.  I was provided a free copy of this book via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.  | Instagram | Twitter | Reader Fox Blog | Bloglovin’ | Facebook |"
331	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	*dnf 50%  I'm really sorry to say that, but I didn't finish this graphic novel. I loved the art with all my heart. I really did! And getting to know the story of such a great figure as Charlie Chaplin in this kind of light form is an amazing idea.  It's just about that I didn't have any motivation to o further with it when I put it down. It's really sad, but I don't like to force myself to finish a book, so I won't do it.  If you want to know Charlie Chaplin's story or look at stunning artwork - this is for you!  Definitely not for everyone (here I am), but worth a try.  I received a free copy of this book from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. #TheStarsofHistoryCharlieChaplin #NetGalley
332	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	4 our of 5 stars - If you ask me, I'll tell you to read it.  I learned a lot about Charlie Chaplin that I never knew while reading this graphic novel. It was clear that Charlie started out with a hard life, but he was able to pull himself up and become the star he is now known to be. I also had no idea about how he was treated through the trials of McCarthyism.  I really enjoyed learning more, and perhaps I will look into the autobiography that is mentioned!  Thanks to NetGalley and Europe Comics for a copy of this book!
333	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	I received an ARC digital version of this book from the publishers. This was a very detailed depiction of Charlie Chaplin’s life in the form of a graphic novel/ comic. It was an interesting and easy read. I finished it in one sitting, not wanting to stop reading.  The comic illustrations suited showing his life in a biographical style. However, I found the character illustrations hard sometimes to tell who was who when the time period jumped forwards and the characters aged. This made it a little confusing at times. The time periods could have been made clearer.  I didn’t know much about him before reading. I wasn’t aware of how problematic he was, or about his personal relationships and underage wives. I liked that the book didn’t shy away from these problematic elements of Chaplin’s life and showed his flaws as well as his career triumphs.  This book has made me interested to learn more about Chaplin, as I only was aware of his silent films.
334	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"""I received a complimentary copy of this book through NetGalley. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own."" I love the use of graphic novels to draw in younger readers and engage them in topics that they might not normally pursue. This was well done."
335	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	This a very accurate account of Chaplin's life in comic form. It starts from birth and tells a very inspiring rags-to-riches story of success.  I wished the art had been more vibrant and the colours more cheerful. The characters looked great but the overall look of the comic was just okay.  It's a nice comic and a very informative read.
336	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"I received an e-copy of this graphic novel memoir from netgalley in exchange for an honest review.  As the last page says, ""Charlie Chaplin is no more, but the tramp will live on forever, crossing generations like he crossed continents, with over eighty films to his credit"". Charlie Chaplin is a legend even in 2020. Throughout my life, I have seen his films and many people my age would also only have to hear his name to know he created silent films. While I didn't realise the character was called the tramp, his easy to bring to mind.  Seeing Chaplin's story from birth to death was interesting. He didn't have it easy, at all! His father was a drunk who didn't care, his mother was penniless trying everything she could to bring money in to house and feed her sons, Sydney and Charles, and eventually was hospitalised as she began to 'lose her mind'. Charlie's career seemed to properly start when he joined Fred Karno's troupe. Karno's troupe took him to America and Chaplin began to direct his own films. From there the tramp that we all know and love really grew. Charlie was a hardworking man who challenged society through his films, which caused a lot of backlash. Regardless, he continued and grew even more successful. Charlie Chaplin is legendary and this graphic novel was great.  For fans of Charlie Chaplin who want to know more about his life and how the tramp came to be, this graphic novel is perfect. I really enjoyed this and I'm so glad I've had the opportunity to read it."
337	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Thank you to netgalley and Publisher for providing me with an arc in exchange for my honest opinion.   Before reading this graphic novel I didn't know too much about Charlie Chaplin, and didn't realize how much he struggled as a child, and how fast he grew up. The artwork for this was amazing I really enjoyed it. The only issue I really had with this was how fast they skipped though his movies compared to how much they put into his childhood.
338	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	‘The Stars of History: Charlie Chaplin’ follows Chaplin’s life from his music-hall beginnings in South London, through to movie stardom in America, McCarthy witch-hunts, to his death in 1977.  At first the pace of this seemed too fast, but you quickly get used to it as you realise that Chaplin’s life really was filled with that many twists and turns. I would have preferred if this had selected a few moments from Chaplin’s life to dwell on in greater depth, as moving as it does at such break-neck speed doesn’t allow the reader to feel the full emotional impact of such moments.  The book doesn’t shy away from problematic aspects of Chaplin - his workaholism, his demands as a director, and (most troublingly) relationships with underage women. Yet because of the pacing of the book, this is one of the many aspects of it that could be dealt with in greater depth if only the authors  I’m not too keen on the art style, although I must say that I enjoyed the subtle changes in Chaplin’s face over the years. The changes were barely noticeable, and done incredibly smoothly.  As a silent film fan myself, I thought I enjoyed seeing the inclusion of other filmmakers and stars of the period, including Stan Laurel, Gloria Swanson, and Edna Purviance.  I’d recommend this for those looking for an introduction to Chaplin, as it outlines most of the major achievements that hardcore Chaplin fans will probably already know.
339	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"A non-fiction bio-graphical, with a lot more of the young Charlie Chaplin's life than I expected, but major flaws. These early scenes, and the almost ligne claire style, made me think this was for a younger audience, but when we get deeper into music hall history and how Chaplin (and his brother Sydney) built up their careers it probably is for an adult. Whatever age you are, the script is quite horrid to read at times, with copious pages bursting with exposition, of the worst ""listen son while your mother tells you what you undoubtedly know – it's just the author doesn't know a better way of getting the information about you across"" kind. I think the most sinful example of many is when Charlie tells his mother's corpse which month she's just died in – I nearly did myself.  Less false at least is the biographical detail here – I didn't know anything about the workhouse, seamstress-for-a-mother, broken home, poverty and everything else Chaplin experienced as a youth. I didn't know any of the minutiae about who produced which film and where and who for, either, and it's debatable whether we need such completist, forensic detail in a populist book like this. But still, it is what it is, and it was certainly readable (apart from oddly unseparated speech bubbles), and definitely educational. That style, though – two and a half stars maximum."
340	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"There are certainly problems with this biography. For one, it spends the largest part of the narrative on Chaplin's childhood, and once he really gets into the film making years it jumps and jumps forward in time at breakneck speed, so that the second half if more like little vignettes than a continuous narrative. Also, the dialogue in the second half is incredibly clunky, with the author having the characters say the names of famous folks out loud as the only way to identify them (""Get out of here Truman Capote"" etc.). Most egregiously of all, it completely glosses over the fact that Chaplin was an absolutely awful person. Yes, you get a small glimpse of his more negative characteristics when he acts like a tyrant on sets, but deliberately rushes past the fact that Chaplin was a pedophile who got two VERY young girls pregnant, and was often accused of being abusive to the women in his life. As an intro to Chaplin the book is fine, but it barely scratches the surface of who he really was. "
341	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	The superstar Charlie Chaplin is favourite of each soul who loves comedy. And many of us do know about his struggle from his birth to being a superstar of the silent-film era. I too have read his biography earlier but I still chose to read this book as this was the first to have it in a comic form.  The Stars of History: Charlie Chaplin. This is a graphic novel which illustrates the biography of the Legend, Charlie Chaplin. This book is a part of a series of biographies of some famous people being published by Europe Comics.  The book is a nice bound of the dialogues and illustrations. Each artwork perfectly fits the plot of the script. The language is kept simple and easy to understand. But yes as each character doesn't have a unique description it gets confusing at times. Other than that the book is nice. And I will try some other from this series.  Thank you Netgalley and Europe Comics for the Review Copy.
342	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Thank you to Netgalley and the publisher for sending me an ARC in exchange for an honest review.  I enjoyed this graphic novel, I only knew of the basics about Chaplins life and didn't realise how much he struggled growing up. This novel was informative and kept at a good length. I've never read a nonfiction book in such a format nor have I seen one, but I am glad to say this was my first one. I also loved the Illustrations in this graphic novel, the pictures were a great companion to the story. The only thing I disliked about this was the formatting of the speech bubbles, some of them were too close together at times making it hard to read. Overall I'd recommend this graphic novel for anyone interested in learning about Chaplins life and what he had to do in order to become who he was.
343	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Of course I knew who Charlie Chaplin was - via his films and iconic imagery - particularly that of 'the tramp'. But I had no clue about his own personal story. I found this book completely heartwarming, and heartbreaking. It's amazing that a graphic novel can make you feel so much! That's when you know it's special! (I've read so many books that don't grab me as emotionally as this graphic novel did!!)  Whether you're a fan of Chaplin or not, I think any film lover would enjoy this - and learn a lot too!  I can see this graphic novel staying with me for a long time!
344	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	I have long been a fan of Chaplin so loved that this was published. The panel layout, colouring and story flow is really good. the graphics are superb. The story takes us from the slums of London to Chaplins rise to fame in Hollywood, through his exile from the USA and his triumphant return. This is a great graphic novel for fans of Chaplin and those that are unaware of his story. Hope there are more in the series
345	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"I received this graphic novel in exchange of an honest review from Netgalley. ""Charlie Chaplin is no more, but the Tramp will live on forever, crossing generations like he crossed continents, with over Eighty films to his credits.""  Wow, coming from nothing then becoming something so legendary. He made himself by himself. Who doesn't know Charlie Chaplin? I love his movies and they still made me laugh with my family. I wrote once a play based on his character The Tramp, it was for school and I made the teacher laugh then I got the best mark with my group. See, Charlie is still working. I loved this book very much and it was pretty good, we have a nice biography of Chaplin in pictures. His life wasn't easy from start, he worked so had to achieve what he wanted and what was done to him at the end with all those accusations, it was really unkind. But whatever they did, he is a lengend and will remain a legend."
346	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	While I knew bits of the history of Charlie Chaplin, such as that he helped found United Artists, and how he was locked out of the United States when he was older, I did not know all the details. I did however watch his most famous movies as part of a film festival, so it was quite cool to see what lead up to some of his greatest films, such as the Great Dictator and Modern Times.  However, with my knowledge, and my passing memory of all the affairs he had, it was still hard to get through all the references that were not given more than a passing footnote, or nothing at all.  However, as often happens, sometimes a graphic novel is a step to the next book to read about the person, as it just whetted your interest.  Thanks to Netgalley for making this book available for an honest review.
347	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"I realize now that the intended audience is not YA. Certainly a teen could/would read it if they were interested in Charlie Chaplin, but it's not the audience. It's actually quite dense with Chaplin's life and I don't know that the graphic style actually added anything to the story-- I would have actually preferred this in a narrative format. I expected more ""recognition"" of scenes of who I know Chaplin to be but those were not necessarily part of the artwork.  Nonetheless, it details very specifically, Chaplin's upbringing, discovering his talent, making it big, but then the treachery that precipitated his travels back to his home country of England. I think I followed most of it but man, what a life, what a story! But not in this format."
348	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	**I received and voluntarily read an e-ARC from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. All thoughts and opinions are my own.**  Charlie Chaplin was one of the greatest actors of all time, so I jumped at the chance to read and review this book/graphic novel.  Great art, easy to follow, though sometimes the panels were a little small for all of the action taking place. The text was easy to read, which is always a plus for comics and graphic novels.  Overall, a great job and one I can't wait to share with all of my cinema loving friends.
349	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Who doesn't know Charlie Chaplin? This comic is the memoir or retelling of that famous actor's life.  
350	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	If you like Charlie Chaplin and want to know more about his life, this is a great way to start.
351	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	What caught my interest about this graphic novel was the main character: Charlie Chaplin. I already knew some bits of his personal history and loved some of his films and was, therefore, extremely eager to know more.  I also loved the use of comics as a medium for a biography, especially when the events narrated took place several decades ago. The art just makes it easier to fully picture life in the early 1900s.  However, I think the authors did not do a great job in telling this story. The idea was interesting, but the performance was poor. The life of Charlie Chaplin was so peculiar, full, complicated as only the life of a genius can be, and it surely could not all be contained in 88 pages.  Instead, it looks like the authors wanted, indeed, to put every single episode of Chaplin’s life in their novel. The result was a mixture of episodes without a strict connection between them, as if we were forwarding a movie and only catch a glimpse of only certain parts.  As I said, the art was great and the idea behind this project was great, but, in my opinion, the result was not that great.  I want to thank Europe Comics and NetGalley for the advanced copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.
352	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Charlie Chaplin is a graphic novel written by Bernard Swysen and illustrated by Bruno Bazile. Thanks to the Net Galley for giving me an opportunity to review the graphic novel which was given in pdf format. I have reviewed a couple of graphic novels but this one was in high resolution and a delight to read.  Europe comics had a great idea of introducing celebrities' biographies into graphic novels. I very much appreciate the idea. Charlie grew up in poverty and becomes a celebrity and great comedian of our time. Charlie Chaplin is legendary the graphic novel closely follows his story and gave good illustrations of his career.  First time I shed tears over an illustration, small boy Chaplin hugging his mother as she has lost her mind. Chaplin had spent his childhood in a state of depression. His entry into theatres and into the United States his triumphs in cinema, his celebrity status, his lost love, and how he got ideas for some of his movies are given neatly. I very much enjoyed the book and I strongly recommend this graphic novel. 
353	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	The history of Charlie Chaplin was a good mini read the flow was good and was easy to follow. I do feel there could have been a bit more information in there for those reading about him for the the first time but as a fan I knew of him prior to reading the book.  As a new fan of graphic novels I really enjoyed the graphic novel style of the book. Bio graphic novels are a new genre for me.  Thank you to NetGallery for the chance to read in an exchange for a review
354	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Thank you to Netgalley and the publishers for an e-ARC of this graphic novel for an honest review.  I thought this was such an interesting take on the life of the movie legend Charlie Chaplin and his rise and fall in fame. How he grew up in England and needed to help his mother when he got older all the way to Hollywood and his Tramp days. I love the art style of this story.
355	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Charming lunch break read about Charlie Chaplin's life. Some of the dialogue/inner monologue is a bit awkward to read since it is used to explain what's going on during various periods of Chaplin's life, but otherwise gives you an idea of this workaholic and the immense body of work he's left behind for generations to enjoy. 
356	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	"Pretty good, but you can tell this is part of a series. It feels similar to those ""Who was..."" books that you'd see at an elementary school. This is definitely made for a higher level audience, but it still has that spirit about it. Most of the info is pretty basic as well, which is a shame as I was hoping to learn more about one of the first true American movie stars. "
357	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Note: I received a digital review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
358	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	I learned a ton about Charlie Chaplin that I didn’t know - the good (how successfully he worked his way up), the bad (how incredibly in poverty he was as a child), and the ugly (HOW many underage women was he gonna get pregnant, marry, and messy divorce with…?). This was so interesting and in many ways entertaining.  However, the pacing was absolutely awful. The story went through the life of Chaplin in 88 pages which meant that there were times when 2 years worth of content happened in the span of 2 panels. Or, people would awkwardly deliver lines explaining what happened in summary of the last 5 years. There was just something that didn’t work about the story in whole. Also, this book is not appropriate for my age group of students. I would say this is definitely an older high school level book with curse words and mentions of sex that should be considered.  All that said, I’m still very glad that I read this and I’m interested in reading even more about Chaplin.
359	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Oh my! I can't stop reading this, and finished the comics in one go. What a life!  Being as funny as Charlie Chaplin, I never knew how genius he is, or how he builds his dreams. All I know is some funny guy who played mute black and white films. But his life is so interesting, written in the form of a comic book like such.  Born in a family of entertainer, but leading a hard life, made Chaplin strive more. With a need to give his mom a better life, Charlie never stopped acting and creating. Combined with his ideas, this genius practically never stops, sacrificing his love life.
360	The_Stars_of_History:_Charlie_Chaplin	Thank you to NetGalley and the Publisher for giving me a copy of this eARC in return of a fair review.  I'm slightly late to post my review for this, since I read it a few weeks ago - but work has been crazy.  However, I still think that this was a great biographical graphic novel. The graphics, text and colours were stunning and I 100% learnt more about Charlie Chaplin that I knew from 30 years of hearing about him in passing and watching reruns of some of his later works. It's easy to see why his work was so adored, though I was sad to hear that his life was turned upside down from such a young age.  Personally, I'd love to see more biography style graphic novels as they are such a vivid and interesting way to learn about prominent figures of the past.
361	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	This graphic novel is great introduction to the fascinating life of Marilyn Monroe. I enjoyed reading about her childhood, adulthood and the road through her career. However it is a really short novel so it doesn't contain all information and there are a lot of time jumps so it is sometimes confusing. It might be a good start to learn anything about this Hollywood icon but if you want to learn more it definitively won't be enough. The art style is amazing and Marilyn Monroe is illustrated so pretty.  Thank you to NetGalley and the publisher for providing me copy of book in exchange for review. All opinions are my own,
362	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	Of course, a 110-page graphic novel doesn't do justice to the life of Marilyn Monroe. There are a lot of time jumps in the story that confused me. Still, it did give me some insight into her life details and the dark side of Hollywood. The artwork is solid, Marilyn is beautifully drawn but in my opinion, some of the characters look caricature-ish.  I'm not her fan, but now that I know she loved reading books, I have a soft spot for her.
363	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	I received an advance reader copy of this book to read in exchange for an honest review via netgalley and the publishers.  The Stars of History: Marilyn Monroe, is a fantastic biographical story about Marilyn Monroe told in comic book style. This book is the first in this series that I have read but it won't be the last. I loved the whole idea of this book. It made it more endearing and fun to read than the usual biography type books. The artwork is fantastic and links greatly with the era of the story. This book shows the highs and lows of Marilyns life, loves and career. The story starts when Marilyn is a small child. Even then she felt alone and unloved. This book exposes the sleeziness and dark side of Hollywood and how unfairly Marilyn was treated as well as her fears, heartbreak, insecurities, unforfillment and increasing addictions. I've always been fascinated with Marilyn Monroe and often ponder on her death. I'd have loved to read more about her suffering of endometriosis as I too am a sufferer of this. I did have a little cry at the end when I read the eulogy read at her funeral. Thank you for such an amazing book - its one I really want to get a copy of in paper to cherish forever.
364	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	I have absolutely nothing bad to say about this book. I love to learn about other peoples lives through biographies. I find that this makes them more human for me, knowing about where they come from, what they had to do to be where they are right now... And this one, in comic book form, is truly amazing. It was my first bio in comic form, and I really loved it.  Many thanks to Europe Comics for the complimentary e-copy of this book through NetGalley. Opinions expressed in this review are completely my own. 
365	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	It's hard to tell a person's life in 100 pages. It's even harder when you're telling the story of Marilyn Monroe... So... yeah... this was not great. The art was ok, but the thing that bugged me was the time jumps. Some panels have dates but most doesn't. It's confusing. I can't figure out the age demographic for these comics, it's not for kids or young teens, that's for sure (there's mentions of drugs and alcohol, there's also nudity) but at the same time it's too childish for adults...  Review copy provided by the publisher and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
366	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	Marilyn Monroe: an icon that has transcended time and continues to be a favourite starlet of many people.  I was very excited to see a story of her life presented in a medium I had yet to see: a graphic novel! The style of the art is perfect for the story; a style that is timeless and always eye catching. For some people, it presents them more as a caricature than what they were in real life; which in ways makes some of the more well known people quite obvious just by glancing at the art. The story itself is one that has been told many a time, in many ways, so its hard to judge the story and its contents. We are talking about a real life! Not much will change over the years and research that is done. For someone who may want to know more about Marilyn and where she came from and who exactly Norma Jean was, this would be a great way to start! For those who are familiar with her story and her troubles, this won't provide much to you, other than a new medium in which to accept the information. Being a fan of hers already, I'm obviously part of the latter group. The panels were LOADED with text, which did become quite distracting and sometimes confusing, but it meant that there was always something to read. This made the book last a bit longer, which was nice. For those who aren't super familiar with her life, the first can be a bit confusing as it does not easily distinguish the people at the start of the novel. You figure out who is who quick enough, but it can still be a bit misleading. A nice touch though was the addition of in panel footnotes that would tell you who directed what movies Marilyn was in and other relevant information to the panel topic. So this could potentially be a good guide for someone who wants to not only know about her, but also be familiar with her film history.  To sum it up: for first time fans, a great option if you don't want to read a biography. For established fans: its a nice change, but won't bring you much.  Thank you to NetGalley and Europe Comics for the free e-copy in exchange for my honest review.
367	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	3 stars. This is a good graphic novel depicting Marilyn's life, but I felt like a lot of it was glossed over and condensed. More parts of her life were focused on and others were only given a couple of blocks. Review to come.
368	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	I have previously read the 'Chaplin' book in the Stars of History series, and really enjoyed it. So I was excited to read this. Once again, I really loved the illustrations, and the story is so well told considering its a graphic novel.  My knowledge of Marilyn is a little vague, so I'm not sure how close the plot is to Monroe's real life story, but I enjoyed it nevertheless and it's made me want to go and watch a Marilyn Monroe film now.  I'm sure any Marilyn fan will love this book, and I can see it being a great gift for any movie-lover!  I look forward to reading other books in this series!
369	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	I received this book from Netgalley in exchange of an honest review.  I was very much interested in this. Marilyn Monroe is such an interesting person, but sadly this graphic novel didn't work for me. It was boring/bland, at times just jumped around which made me very confused (like when she was singing for the soldiers and then cues to a few months later where we find out that she is being abused by Joe or when she was having a bad Christmas and the next we see she is in prison/clinic), I wasn't fan of the characters and sometimes even wasn't a fan of Monroe. Something just didn't click for me and I found myself checking how far I was constantly. One time I thought I was nearing the end and I still had more than half the pages to go. But I did find out some new things about Marilyn, and I felt for her even more. So many miscarriages, people treating her like crap because she is a woman/blonde. The art was pretty great though I would have liked them to be more consistent on how characters look, especially Marilyn's body went from one way to another in just a few panels.
370	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	"""Stars of History - Marilyn"" provides an interesting overview of Marilyn Monroe's life. While many events are skimmed over, and some important details only hinted at, the story still manages to provide a great summary that I would easily recommend to someone only starting to learn about the legend of Marilyn Monroe."
371	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	**I was provided a digital advance copy of this comic by the publisher, so thank you, Net Galley, Bernard Swyer, and Europe Comics for the opportunity.  This takes an honest look into Marilyn Monroe's life, exposing the harshness of Hollywood and how the glamorous life portrayed on the screen is just a facade. I loved seeing this story from her point of view, getting a glimpse at what's going into her head, and how she just wanted to be taken seriously.  Also, Frank Sinatra sucks.
372	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	Interesting graphic novel bio, with a solid chunk covering Norma Jean's youth (and her mother's life before her birth), continuing through the greatest hits of her life in Hollywood. Not for the middle grades/younger YA ages, as it directly approaches Norma Jean and then Marilyn's sexuality, the Hollywood casting couch, what became the legendary Playboy pictorial, etc. I did really enjoy the approach to her final, unfinished film, Something's Got to Give...it covered a significant portion of the book's last act. And her ultimate end was approached in a fragmented way, as it has been in history.  While the art is solid, I'm not sure if fits its subject matter. Marilyn looks fine, but many others in her life verge on too much to caricature for my taste.  The end matter was very interesting, with a filmography and select movie posters.  This graphic novel was an ARC provided by Netgalley. Thanks for the opportunity to read it!
373	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	This biographical graphic novel of Marilyn Monroe’s extravagant, glamorous but also sad life certainly captures some of the key highs and lows of a Hollywood starlet. Showcasing some of her most iconic poses, dresses and dramas, I really felt like I understood Marilyn’s life even from her childhood and some of the motivations behind her decline.  I really like the illustrations; the style feels very much in keeping with the period and was a bold choice which wasn’t at all delicate in its approach, which is brilliant. However, I did find the prose quite difficult to feel compelled to keep reading. I understand and appreciate some of the points the author is trying to make, particularly surrounding Marilyn’s mistreatment in the industry, in her relationships but also with the psychological damage miscarriage and endometriosis caused her to endure. I think actually the author should be commended for capturing this quite so well, but I still found the delivery to be a little dry and this hugely detracted from my enjoyment.  Regardless, I can see how this series of stories about celebrities will be insightful for a lot of readers who are fans of those people. But, for me, my interest in Hollywood and fame is pretty mediocre at best so I won’t dabble in further instalments for now.  ARC provided from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
374	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	This is a fascinating graphic novel, telling the story of Marilyn Monroe. The book is a good introduction to her childhood, rise to fame and career. The artwork is good and manages to tell her story without overwheming the reader with too much text. It is an amazing story of a woman who believed in herself and her abilities, despite the challenges of being a woman in the the film industry.  The novel focuses on the well known aspects of Marilyn's life. It is a graphic novel and so it is somewhat limited in how much can be told, but I think it did a pretty good job. I enjoyed reading this because I didn't really know that much about Marilyn Monroe and I think this has a way of providing a thoughtful introduction. She was clearly a fascinating woman and a life lost far too early. The reader is left wondering what might have been.  Copy provided by Europe Comics via Netgalley in exchange for an unbiased review.
375	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	'The Stars of History: Marilyn Monroe' by Bernard Swysen with illustrations by Paty Christian brings the superstar's life to the pages of a graphic novel.  This is a good introduction to the life of Marilyn Monroe. From her tragic childhood, to the rest of her somewhat tragic life, Marilyn managed to have a fairly decent Hollywood career and become an icon. She struggled with being shuffled from house to house while growing up. She struggled with marriages to controlling men who were verbally and physically abusive. She struggled to be taken seriously as an actor as she was stereotyped as the dumb beauty.  I liked this story. It feels a bit one-sided, but many celebrity bios feel that way. That art is really quite lovely and I love the depiction of Marilyn that is made.  I received a review copy of this graphic novel from Europe Comics and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Thank you for allowing me to review this graphic novel.
376	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	First of all, I’d like to thank Netgalley for giving me an advanced copy of this graphic novel in exchange for my honest review.  Now, what do I think of this?  This was pretty fast, and also, the graphical part of it was so cool, I loved seeing the illustrations and it was pretty great. The story was so fast that I was sometimes confused how it jumped from this to the other things, I would have loved to see more of some things that they were showing on it. But then I also loved that they decided to tell the story of her mother, then we can learn more about her past. I also loved that at the end of it you can see all the movies and songs of Marilyn trascurring the time.  In fact, this was something good but not that great to be worthy of my 5 stars rating, for me it was 3,8 stars, just because of those amazing illustrations. 
377	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	 There are books and graphic novels I like in concept that absolutely fail in execution. The Stars of History: Marilyn Monroe is absolutely one of those books. I love Old Hollywood, and I've always been fascinated with Marilyn Monroe so a graphic novel exploring Monroe's life should be amazing. This, however, is just insulting. Bernard Swysen pretends to be interested in the nuance of Monroe's life, but he gives a plot synopsis of her life instead of diving deep on anything. You get no depth of Monroe, no insight into her psychology, nothing about her interests or ambitions or pain. This graphic novel is just like reading her Wikipedia page, and that page is probably better sourced! (The version I read did not include a bibliography.) And the artwork! Frankly, if I were Marilyn Monroe, I would be insulted by a creative team who pretends to be interested in me as a person but illustrates me as the stereotype I hated. Every biography I've read about Marilyn Monroe makes a distinction about Norma Jean the person and Marilyn Monroe the star. It was a character she could play, turning it off and on and being able to pass as a normal person on the street if she wanted to. Bernard Swysen and his team have no concept of this, and it shows. Marilyn Monroe deserves a hell of a lot better than this effort.
378	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	The Stars of History: Marilyn Monroe by @bernardswysen and @christianpaty_dzack Thank you to #netgalley and @europecomics for the review copy. #eightysixthbookof2020 I enjoyed this #graphicnovel a lot. I had no idea this series existed. I loved the NBC series #Smash, about the staging of a Broadway musical about Marilyn, so of course this cover jumped out at me. I liked the way the story of Marilyn’s life unfolded, starting with her parents. I loved the bright graphics of the book. They’re bold and pretty and really engaging. I thought the story fleshed out aspects of Marilyn’s life that I was previously unaware of, such as her unfortunately tragic early life and multiple miscarriages. Be aware of some nudity and sexual trauma. The story jumps around and skims the surface of things I would have liked more details about, but overall it was a good way to learn more about a life I assumed I knew but actually didn’t.
379	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	I received an e-copy of this book on netgalley in exchange for an honest review.I enjoyed this book and found it really eye opening into Marilyn Monroe's life. I didn't really know much about her before reading this other than the fact that she was an actress and I (like everyone) had seen the iconic photo of her in the white dress. This graphic novel is beautiful and I really liked the art style. ***** SPOILERS BELOW ******The story itself opens with an insight into Norma Jean's mother's life and from the very beginning it becomes clear that life isn't easy and there are challenges in the families life. Norma is passed around from person to person and at one point is even placed into an orphanage. Her mother and grandmother both have mental health challenges which result in them being hospitalised during their lives. Being young, Norma is unsure what is happening in her life other than that no one seems to want her and she keeps receiving unwanted attention from boys and men because of her looks and her chest developing quickly. She is forced into a marriage when there is no one to care for her which leads to her being very unhappy as a housewife with no connection with her husband. During the war, he becomes a soldier and she begins her modelling career after a photographer noticed her at her work. An agency picks her up and convinces her to get a divorce in order to develop her career. After this she is picked up by fox and begins her movie career. During this time she is told to change her name, henceforth Marilyn Monroe is born.Marilyn has many marriages and is in and out of love with various men, some of which are abusive or controlling. This causes her to spiral into abusing anti-depressant medication and drinking. During one of these relationships, Marilyn experiences multiple miscarriages (we learn she has endometriosis which she has surgeries for) which further worsens her mental health and substance abuse. She accidentally overdoses and ends up being hospitalised at one point with little support from those around her. Her death was very sad and sudden and is still speculated about today: was it suicide, accidental overdose, or were The Kennedy's involved in an assassination?Marilyn Monroe is still an icon today but I feel like many of us do not know her full life story nor her struggles. It just goes to show that you never know what someone is going through even if they appear happy and successful.
380	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	I received this advanced copy from Netgalley in exchange for my honest review.  I couldn’t wait to read this. I love comic books/ graphic novels and I enjoy reading about the stars “of old”. Now Marilyn Monroe is one of best known names from that era. What comes to mind when someone says her name? To me, it’s the platinum hair, the beauty mark, the “Happy Birthday, Mr. President” and the white dress from The Seven Year Itch (1955). But she was so much more than that.  We learn many things about Marilyn while reading this. She had a horrible childhood, which was way worse than I thought. She was abused (and possibly raped) before the age of 14. She was married off by her legal guardian at the age of 16 (because she didn’t want to bring Marilyn with her?!).  We see her going to work, becoming a model, fighting to get contracts and roles. We see her love of reading. I love that she wanted roles that had substance instead of the “blonde bombshell” roles she kept getting. She founded her own film production company, she took method acting classes, she won a Golden Globe. We also see the attention her private life gets from the media, including her marriages, her divorces and her death.  Now, as Marilyn Monroe had such a complicated and interesting life, 100 pages definitely wasn’t enough to convey all of it. I was expecting her life being divided more or less evenly (1/3 childhood, 1/3 from her first marriage to being a star, 1/3 troubled times to her death). Perhaps that’s the logical part of my brain talking. There was too much on her youth, though it explains her background very thoroughly, and there was not enough about her death and investigation. The timelime wasn’t quite clear, but at least it didn’t go back and forth.  Even though I thought there were a few issues as previously mentioned, I would still recommend this graphic novel. It is a great introduction to who Marilyn Monroe was. I am also interested in reading other books from the series The Stars of History (Charlie Chaplin, Brigitte Bardot). It is also worth mentioning this series is originally published in French (Les étoiles de l’histoire) and his other series La véritable histoire vraie (Attila, Dracula, Hitler) could be interesting as well.  The Stars of History: Marilyn Monroe has already been published by Europe Comics.
381	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	A great start for people who want to learn about this amazing woman  Key words: non-fiction, Marilyn Monroe, biography, graphic novel  Marilyn Monroe is such an interesting character. I am not going to lie; I didn’t know much about her before reading this book (kind of the reason why I chose to read it). I have read another book in the series: Charlie Chaplin, and I have to say, I liked the graphic novel about Marilyn Monroe more.  The story is, hence, nothing new as it is a biography but I thought it was well presented. I never felt lost as to where in the story we were and I loved the drawing style. It is really cute and colourful, very fitting to illustrate Marilyn Monroe I think. We follow her from her when she was born to the day she died. Bernard Swysen pictured her as quite a nice person through the graphic novel, though sometimes I thought she didn’t really care about the people who did everything they could for her. What I liked the most about her is that she gave everything to fulfil her dream and did not care about money, refusing contract and proposal that didn’t follow her principles. She really is a star of history. She paved the way for many women in the acting sector.  I recommend this book. It is a fun and entertaining way to learn about Marilyn Monroe, though it will not go in great details about the events that happened.  4/5  Thank you Netgalley for this eArc in exchange of my honest opinion
382	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	My thanks to Europe Comics for a digital review copy via NetGalley of ‘Stars of History: Marilyn Monroe’ written by Bernard Swysen with art by Christian Paty. It was translated from the French by Dan Christensen and Tea Bodson (preface). It was published in November 2020.  This is part of Europe Comic’s series of biographies of the legends of cinema in graphic novel format.  It opens with a preface by French actress Mylène Demongeot, who provides a moving testimonial to Marilyn Monroe’s life and legacy. I wasn’t aware of much about Monroe’s life, especially the degree to which she was exploited financially and generally messed about by the studios. As Mylène Demongeot writes: “When she finally discovered her strength and power, it was too late.”  The artwork is retro, referencing the style of comics of the mid-20th century. This felt appropriate given the period setting. I also appreciated that after the main biographical section that Monroe’s filmography and songs was provided, including images of her iconic movie posters.  Overall, I felt that this was an excellent example of how the graphic novel format can expand beyond its expected parameters into areas such as biography and cultural history.
383	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	"I have loved Marilyn Monroe since I found out we shared our birthday years ago. So I was so excited when I saw that her story was made into a graphic novel. That said, I was kind of disappointed with this. I'm not sure if it was the graphic novel format or the storytelling itself, but all the nuance of her life was stripped away. This book made Marilyn seem ditzy and flakey, when she was deeply intelligent and was forced to use her body to sell her career. They did excel in showing how much trauma she went through in her life, but I'm not sure that her depression came across well. It also felt like there was an agenda to make it seem like Arthur Miller was a good husband to her, and making it seem like her previous husbands were astronomically worse by comparison. By the end of this I just wanted to pick up one of the Marilyn biographies on my shelf, including rereading her journal entries in ""Fragments"" and her own accounts in ""My Story."""
384	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	"I just finished this graphic novel, and while I didn't find it entirely my cup of tea, I can see how it might appeal to others. The graphic novel attempts to offer a fresh perspective on the iconic Marilyn Monroe, blending art and bits of humor into the narrative.  The book delves into Marilyn's life, from her turbulent childhood to her tragic final days. The events are presented in vivid detail, and the humorous touch adds a unique flavor to the storytelling. However, I personally didn't connect with it as much as I hoped.  The artwork is interesting, but not quite fascinating. The attempt at a fresh look is evident, and some might find it appealing, but it didn't entirely resonate with me. The illustrations, while conveying the essence, lacked a certain captivation.  Now, onto dislikes – and here's where personal taste comes into play. The graphic novel fell a bit short of leaving a lasting impression on me. Despite its attempts at uniqueness, it didn't quite hit the mark for my preferences.  ""The Stars of History: Marilyn Monroe"" might still find its audience. If you're open to a different take on Marilyn's life with a sprinkle of humor and unique artwork, give it a shot. It might just be the graphic novel you're looking for."
385	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	Graphic novels normally delve into superheroes, horror or action-oriented genres that use an interesting concept to bring a story to life. Swysen and Paty decide to tackle the life of a Hollywood icon and do something that is thought provoking and insightful.  The story of Marilyn Monroe is an exciting and sad story of a goddess who rises from a poor disadvantage beginning to become one of the world’s leading icons that is very much alive 50 years after her death. Swysen and Paty’s new book is an exciting graphic novel that chronicles her rise and sad death.  This is an excellent graphic novel that would make a great gift for people who are real Marilyn Monroe fans and for people who know very little of her life, a great way to learn the inside story of this Hollywood icon and goddess who will live on for centuries to come. I can’t wait to see what they do next. 
386	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	Disclaimer: I received this book in exchange of my honest opinion.  It's a biography of Marilyn Monroe in the format of a graphic novel. And I liked the idea of it, but I just didn't really cared about the characters - and that is weird, because I love Marilyn. Something was missing, and that something was feelings.  It is hard to tell someone's biography in a short graphic novel and you can see that by how much text there is and how all over the place everything seems to be. The time jumps are not easily noticed and you feel like you lost some parts of the story.  Some of the characters looked pretty similar and it was really hard to follow the story because of that.
387	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	Another nonfiction graphic novel! This one was a historical account of Marilyn Monroe. The art for this one was both beautiful and whimsical. I did appreciate that this was just a brief overview of her life. It wasn't an in-depth account, but it seemed to cover all the main points of her life. I wasn't too familiar with Monroe's story outside of the Hollywood fame, bouts of depression, her death and the rumors of her affair with President JFK. So I found this graphic novel to be informational about her childhood, the beginning of her modeling/acting career, her love affairs and her tragic demise. I knew of her marriage to Joe DiMaggio - the baseball player, but I didn't know of her first marriage to James Dougherty and Arthur Miller. THE ARTHUR MILLER!!!! As a lover of literature, I feel like I should have known this. I empathized with her struggles with miscarriages and the pain it brings. I shed a few tears for our shared misfortunes. Since her death was shrouded in mystery, I think this novel did her death justice in this novel. This graphic novel painted her struggles and tragedies in full color. I appreciated the way in which Marilyn Monroe was portrayed.
388	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	Marilyn Monroe is a name that pretty much everyone will recognise; even if you couldn't name a single film she'd ever been in you know who she is. But one thing that I realised when I came to reading this book was that really, I knew nothing about her. Her life was nothing like I was expecting, especially her early years, and Stars of History: Marilyn Monroe manages to condense her story down in a manageable way.  I've read another of this series before, Stars of History: Charlie Chaplin, and found that that book covered the career of Chaplin more than it did his personal life, but in this book that seems to be flipped somewhat. A large section of the book is given over to Marilyn as a young woman, when she was still just Norma Jean, trying to make her way through a difficult childhood. We start to get inside her head a little, and focus on the emotional difficulties that she faced.  Even when the book moves forward through time and she becomes a famous movie star we focus less on her career and the roads she made as a star, and instead focus on what effect that had on her as a person. We see hoe frustrated she was at not getting the roles she wanted, and how that went on to effect her mental health and her behaviour.  The book doesn't sugar coat the difficulties that Marilyn faced, and makes sure that we see how these issues impacted her. We don;t just get a hand-wave saying 'this thing made her job on the set difficult', but instead we see her at home, suffering and saddened because of what's happening. This book really hammered home that despite her wealth and fame she was still just a regular person, one who can suffer just like you and me.  However, there are a few issues that I had with the book, though this mainly comes down to my not feeling it was long enough. I wanted more pages, in part so that some of the gorgeous artwork from Christian Paty could have more room and been showcased more, but also so that we could have slowed down a bit and spent more time with these people, rather than rushing from one major event to another. These books are great for giving you a broad overview of a person's life, but can sometimes feel like they're moving at breakneck speed, and that was certainly the case here at times.  This book won't completely satisfy your craving to learn more about Marilyn Monroe, and I think if you're anything like myself you'll come away wanting to read a bigger book all about her to be able to spend more time on the little details this book sometimes has to move past quickly; however, it will give you a really good overview of her life, and leave you knowing a good deal about her. This is probably the perfect gateway book if you want to know more about this figure from history, but aren't sure if you want to pick up a huge book about her.
389	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	I didn't know much of Marilyn Monroe's life so I found this to be a fun way to learn about her life. She definitely had a sad life from childhood to her death. This graphic novel does jump around quite a bit though and sometimes I couldn't tell the characters apapr which caused some confusion story wise. I did appreciate the style of the drawings and thought they were well done. Thanks to Netgalley.com and Europe Comics for my complimentary eARC copy
390	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	3 Stars ( I received an e-arc from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review)  TW: Drug use, sexual harassment  This art style was quite cute contrasting Marilyn/ Norma Jean’s crazy life, it did give me some more insight into her life details. Last year I read a novel in verse from Marilyn’s point of view but this book provided some more concrete details. I forgot how young she gets married and how many different homes she goes through.
391	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	A very interesting read about the Life of Monroe. The illustrations are nice and simple and the story is easy and accessible. I read it in an hour . I found the first half of this graphic novel far more interesting than the second half . Learning about Monroes childhood was very tragic .  Thank you Netgalley for my arc in return for an honest review
392	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	I loved the artwork used here which gave an easy look into the life of a Hollywood icon however the rushed execution from the 3rd act onwards left alot to be desired. Nevertheless I would count this one as an easy breeze read..
393	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	Note: I received a digital review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
394	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	It was interesting to read about Marylin Monroe, because I didn't know much about her at all. So, I was quite curious to learn more and more about her, her movies, her personal life... In this comic, we see a lot, between the abuse, the failures, the despair... It was not very much a happy reading. She had a difficult life for sure. On the other hand, I was not a fan of the art and the chain of events (the change of scene was too quick for me).
395	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	The artwork of this novel is stunning and did such a great job rendering Hollywood's stars in very accurate portrayals. I only know the basics of Marilyn Monroe's history, so I can't agree with the accuracy of it, but it provided a lot of details and seemed to stick true to her story. Marilyn, born Norma Jean, grows up the daughter of a single mother who suffers from mental health issues. Shuffled between relatives, friends, and foster care, Norma Jean dreams of becoming a big star one day. Getting married at 16 in order to escape her home life she continues to struggle throughout her short life time. Hoping to make it big she changes her name and spends her days running from one studio to another asking for roles trying to be a star. Jumping from role to role and man to man, Marilyn became a well loved star who died too early. Her infamy continues on, Unfortunately because this is a Europe Comic title I can't purchase this for our library.  Thank you to publisher and NetGalley for a copy.
396	The_Stars_of_History:_Marilyn_Monroe	I loved the artwork used here which gave an easy look into the life of a Hollywood icon however the rushed execution from the 3rd act onward left a lot to be desired. Nevertheless I would count this one as an easy breeze read..
397	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Imagine if A&E's old Biography series had been co-directed by Baz Luhrmann (Moulin Rouge) and Jean-Pierre Jeunet (Amelie). That's kind of what this book is like. Beautiful in every way. Love it love it love it.
398	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I knew of Doris Eaton Travis because she was the oldest living follies dancer, and because she danced at age 100 on the New Amsterdam stage. (Footage of her dancing can be seen on Broadway: The American Musical). As an avid fan of all entertainment from the turn of the century, I was naturally interested in this book.  Lauren Redniss uses an artistic, scrapbooking style to approach Doris' life, and uses background information, news articles, interviews with her, and photos of her life to paint the picture. The font is the same one they use on the cups at Chipotle, so it looks like scribbly handwriting with different sized letters and wavy lines.  Maybe now that Doris has passed, a more complete biography will be written about her life. Until then, this book is great eye candy.
399	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	This book is a biography and an art journal/scrap book all rolled up in one. It is amazing in two senses -- the first is being able to read about an amazing woman who has lived a long and amazing life. The second is that the book itself is an amazing, beautiful, quirky and creative conglomeration of text and images.  I'm glad to see picture books being created for big people! We like to look at pictures too!
400	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	As with her previous work Radioactive, Redniss once again weaves together a magical biography filled with images, illustrations, and unique formatting. I've never read books quite like the ones Redness creates. They are lovely. 
401	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Doris Eaton Travis, the longest-surviving Ziegfeld Follies dancer, who passed away at age 106, did and saw incredible things in her time. Starting out as one of several children raised in the theatre, Eaton Travis went from Broadway to Hollywood, to running and opening 18 Arthur Murray dance studios, to ranching horses, to earning her college degree in her 80s, back to Broadway! Lauren Redniss tells her story masterfully with drawings and collage, incorporating old photos and newspaper clippings. 
402	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	"This graphic novel is well worth a read. It is the story of the Ziegfeld Follies girl Doris Eaton Travis. It goes through her life and talks about some of the awesome changes that happened in her life. She faced the challenges with a dancing spirit. There were lots of pictures she and her sisters were really beautiful. She lived to be over 100! What a life she lived full of dancing, turmoil and memories. Very interesting. Quote from Doris about helping with WWII effort ""We were very busy during the war. People would come to us to relieve their anxiety. We used to go up to Kalamazoo once a week to the hospital and teach the fellas there. Some of them had lost legs and arms but we helped them to get back the feeling that they could be part of things""(p. 129). ""Unchanged for some 400 million years, the chambered nautilus is often called a living fossil. As the animal develops and outgrows its shell it builds a new compartment, sealing off the previous one and moving on to the new chamber. Though the previous chambers are walled shut, they remain attached and the vapor inside the empty chambers provides the creature with buoyancy. Thus the past is not lost, but rather supports the continuing organism""(p. 184). "
403	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	It's a bit misleading to mark this as a graphic novel, given that it is non-fiction, but the way the subject is presented, in photographs with carefully selected text, is visually artistic in the most pleasing of ways.  Doris Eaton lived to be well over 100 years old, and stayed mobile almost to the end of her days (she was sharp as a tack, apparently, right up until her last moment). She saw a great deal of history, and even made some of it in her century of keeping body and soul together while being lovely.  Did you know that she introduced the song Singin' in the Rain? I didn't, and apparently she spent many, many years correcting others who assumed that it was Cliff Edwards. She had good reason to remember, given that she loved Nacio Herb Brown and he wrote it for her.  Thanks to the scrapbooks that the whole family kept, and the wonderful adventures that Doris Eaton had, this book is a visual treat. I hope Lauren Redniss does more like this because it was a unique, fascinating way to learn about a life.
404	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	A look into the world of glitzy Broadway, the vaudeville circuit, and early-20th century pop culture, Century Girl is a sprightly, entertaining read that combines just the right amount of color and substance to the subject. As a biography of Doris Eaton, Lauren Redniss struggles a lot more with spinning it all into a narrative, especially in regards to Eaton's post-fame life, which feels somewhat abbreviated. If Girl isn't exactly the triumph of the form, it does show Redniss developing her particular storytelling combination -- historical research, whimsy and mixed media work (a style she would perfect in Radioactive).  It did seem perhaps at times that Redniss was too close to the subject and couldn't gain the necessary perspective on Eaton as she did on the Curies. There may also be something to the observation that the subject matter in Radioactive (chemistry!) has not frequently been portrayed so Redniss was forced to stretch herself a little more in making the story visual and *vital*. Rating: 3.5 stars
405	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	This book is both a fascinating and inspirational story, and atistically GORGEOUS. Redniss is a breathtaking artist, although her handwritten text is slightly difficult to read at times, not for content but for design. The art is so beautiful and captivating, and truly encompasses the glory days of the follies. I would truly encourage this read for anyone who enjoys dance, Arthur Murray, biographies, history of the US, the art nouveau or anything to do with the Ziegfield Follies. It is a lovely book, an only took about a day to read, as the text is sparse on the primarily graphic pages, but it's worth the read. 
406	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I LOVE this book! I've watched specials on the Ziegfeld Follies since I was little, so this was of particular interest. This book is so beautiful and artistic, combining photos with doodles and lyrical stories. I can't believe Doris is still alive today at 104! And she still dances three times a week! This book embodies her inspiration, and I highly recommend it.
407	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	i want her to do my biography
408	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Century Girl: 100 Years in the Life of Doris Eaton Travis, Last Living Star of the Ziegfeld Follies is a graphic novel written by and illustrated by Lauren Redniss. It is a graphic novel that tackles the life of Ziegfeld Follies star Doris Eaton.  Doris Eaton Travis was an American dancer, stage and film actress, dance instructor, owner and manager, writer, and rancher, who was the last surviving Ziegfeld Girl, a troupe of acclaimed chorus girls who performed as members in the Broadway theatrical revues of the Ziegfeld Follies.  Born in 1904 to a theatre-crazed Virginia family, Eaton was cast in New York's famous Follies at age fourteen, appeared in numerous silent films, worked for years as a dance instructor, and earned her college degree at age of eighty-eight.  Century Girl: 100 Years in the Life of Doris Eaton Travis, Last Living Star of the Ziegfeld Follies is written and constructed extremely well. New York Times contributor Redniss' surrealist scrapbook approach is striking and unique, captivating readers by twining simple, evocative text with a stunning array of images, splaying words at all angles across the page. Each page offers a wild mix of illustrations, doodles, photos and memorabilia from Eaton's archives, accompanied by handwritten text outlining her fascinating life, which comes across like something out of the musical Gypsy.  All in all, Century Girl: 100 Years in the Life of Doris Eaton Travis, Last Living Star of the Ziegfeld Follies is a biography-in-collage graphic novel which tackles the life of Ziegfeld Follies star Doris Eaton.
409	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	An engaging, picaresque romp through the life of a fascinating person. It's a breeze to read and enjoyable, but it is not an in depth biography or a normal book. Instead, it is a sort of annotated scrapbook of a remarkable life. Recommended for anyone interested in the Ziegfeld Girls, Americana, and the silent film era. I subtracted one star because it lacks any real depth for any but the central character, even as it whets your appetite to know more about them (the lives of Doris Eaton Travis' siblings are very interesting, but barely sketched here). I found myself fascinated, however, by Doris Eaton Travis and thought the book was very well done, insofar as design and execution. Recommended.
410	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	A gorgeous art book tracing the extraordinary life of Doris Eaton - Follies girl, actor, businesswoman, and incredibly long-lived dancer - and her siblings, several of whom were on the Broadway stage as well. Eaton's mother and brother kept comprehensive scrapbooks, and the many images from photographs and newspaper and magazine articles get re-purposed into colorful, evocative montages to accompany the text. The text itself is often very difficult to read - hand-lettered, artistically crammed and strangely formatted - but the book itself is just beautiful, and Doris' life story is at turns glamorous, heart-breaking, and deeply inspiring. 
411	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I love Lauren Redniss’s approach to storytelling. The intermingling of the words and images. A narrative collage. I just enjoyed this book so much. And Doris Eaton, the youngest Ziegfeld Follies “girl” who became the oldest living Ziegfeld “girl” with some life twists and turns in between, well she’s fascinating! Great. 
412	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Interesting like a coffee table book you want to read cover to cover. I feel a little weird about it, I heard about the author when asking for comic recommendations— but it’s not quite the completeness of a comic, or the art I expect from a graphic novel. Not even maira Kalmanesque, But she had a interesting story
413	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	This was both beautiful to look at and read. 
414	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Loved it!! Visually amazing and just a fascinating look at a life and history!
415	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	For any fan of showgirls, or enduring women! A beautiful scrapbook, whimsical in its design. 
416	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I loved this book so much. The story is interesting in itself, but the author has the most cunning illustrations and collages that are the best part of the book. It's magical.
417	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	What a fantastic book! History comes to live in this graphic, scrapbook-like format that highlights the life of an incredible dancer from the 20th century. 
418	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Honestly one of the most beautiful books I’ve ever read. I’m going to seek out Redniss’s other books now!
419	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Doris Eaton Travis lived a fascinating and amazing life. Due to the unconventional format it is only an overview of her life, but there are some brilliant photos in this book. My only complaint is that the text was a bit hard to read at times.
420	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Another stunning tour de force from Lauren Redniss. Through a montage of photographs, newspaper articles and drawings, Redniss captures the life of a truly remarkable woman, Doris Eaton. Not many people can say they lived an entire century and even fewer can claim the life of glamour and intrigue that characterizes Doris Eaton's glory days. As a member of the Ziegfeld Follies, Eaton lived the type of life that we romanticize and daydream about when we think of the 1920s. Appearing on stage and the big screen, Doris truly had it all...and lost it all in the 30s when the Great Depression hit. Her story is full of excess, tragedy, glamour and achievement. Redniss has a knack for capturing the lives of unique and admirable women who flout convention and achieve great things (maybe she should start a series?) and her storytelling approach is truly an artform.
421	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	"Lauren Redniss' Century Girl is a work of art that tells the story of a remarkable woman, Doris Eaton Travis. It is visually stunning -- the colors and art/photos/clippings and presentation make the cleverly inked biographical words LIVE on the page. And though longevity is one of the book's hooks -- ""100 years in the life..."" -- it is really about LIVING life, really, truly living life. It's a very unique experience reading this book -- you open a page and the gorgeous, artistic presentation really draws your eyes. You soak it all in, and then you read the words. As you read the words, you take in the art in a new way, and the words and the art combine to unfold the story in a really wonderful way. I highly recommend this book."
422	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	"When I finally picked this up from the library, I was surprised to see how large (I'm talking ""coffee table book large"") this title was. While beautifully illustrated with a ton of lovely vintage photos detailing Doris Eaton's extraordinary life, I was a little disappointed that the text - the actual story of Doris - wasn't longer. It seemed as if each two-page spread only covered a brief blip in her life and career, and just when you got interested in one anecdote, bam! Three years pass and there's another story to tell. And sorry, call me an old codger or something, but the hand-written text (I get that it tried to look like one of her scrapbooks) was just plain distracting. Very interesting, but could have been so much better as a regular biography."
423	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	The subject of this colorful book, Dorothy Easton Travis, was an amazing, accomplished, intrepid human being. The art work is beautiful. The writing is whimsical. But somehow, I found it to be unsatisfying. My favorite book that is not a graphic novel, but uses art and text, is The Principles of Uncertainty, by Maira Kalman. That book manages to be simple yet profound. It leaves you wanting more, in a good way. But Century Girl is trying too hard to be gorgeous, to amaze with typography, with collage. To me it looks like many other things I've seen...the magazine Cloth, Paper, Scissors has dozens of examples of work that could stand beside this one. Read it because of the subject. But I wouldn't buy it. 
424	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	"Visually stunning biography in collage form. Doris started in the Ziegfield Follies when she was barely fourteen and over the years met eeeeeeverybody--not only Ziegfeld but also Woodrow Wilson, Will Rogers, George Gershwin, Irving Berlin, Fred Astaire, Babe Ruth, Eddie Cantor, Al Jolson, Charles Lindbergh, the Warner Brothers (back when they were Eichelbaums), Oscar Levant, and many more . . . including John Wayne, back in 1929 when ""he was the prop boy."" It was also interesting to read about her struggles and triumphs in later life, as a businesswoman and college graduate. (She graduated from college at 88 and got an honorary doctorate at 100.)"
425	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Century Girl was good, but in many ways disappointing. I had expected (when I ordered the book through Interlibrary Loan) a typical non-fiction book. Instead, it was a collage, mixing text, drawings and photos, as well as newspaper clippings. While the book itself was enjoyable, I felt like it lacked depth. Doris Eaton Davis is over 100 years old and has lived a life full of adventure and many challenges. I can only imagine what stories she has to share that this book failed to even scratch the surface of. 
426	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I'd give this book six stars if I could. It is utterly fascinating - the story of Doris Eaton Travis. I learned so much about the Ziegfield Follies, silent movies, Prohibition, the Depression and the Arthur Murray Dance studios and so much more. This lady is incredible - oh and the other great part this is a graphic novel. The author did an incredible job. She died in 2010 at the age of 106. 
427	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I'm hooked on Lauren Redniss' books so got this one as well. This is about the last Ziegfeld follies girl that lived to be 106 yrs old! She danced at her 100th bday party. Something all of us might want to do (or not!)!!! Again, the layout of the book; pictures; creativity and artistry of the book make it one to own. Doris Eaton Travis was quite a girl/woman...it would've been fun to know her. 
428	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	This book is a loving portrait of Eaton, lavishly illustrated with photos and drawings. Even the words are hand-lettered and creatively arranged around the illustrations. In whole, this is a beautiful and brilliant work of art to be admired as much for the design as for the fascinating life it chronicles. Eaton was a strong woman with an indomitable joie de vivre, and Redness is an artist whose work is to relish.
429	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	What a marvelously well-crafted graphic biography of Doris Eaton, a world famous dancer. A wonderful combination of old photographs, collage, hand-written text, and drawings. Even better, Redniss obviously did her homework with her extensive research and interviews. This is a really fascinating story that will remind you just how many lives a person can lead within a single lifetime.
430	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I'm a sucker for this multi-media collage stuff. Plus, who doesn't love a Follies gal still kicking up her heels into the next millenium?  While the book is appealing and fancy and shares the fascinating history of this great woman, it fell short of my grand expectations. Perhaps it's just an aesthetic difference, but that's what it's all about, right?
431	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Doris Eaton Travis had such an amazing life! She did so many things and met so many people and was spunky and dancing well up into her 90s and 100s. There was so much life in her life! Lauren Redniss (who also did Radioactive, the Marie Curie pictobiography) did an incredible job weaving her own bizarre illustrations and archival pictures into a spectacle, a work of art on every page. 
432	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	"Like Redniss' ""Radioactive,"" THIS BOOK IS TOTALLY RAD. Firstly, it concerns one of my favorite eras of American history. Second of all, it deals with showbiz and early film. Thirdly, this lady, Doris Eaton, is AMAZING, okay? This biography is insightful and cool and damn, did she ever meet cool people/do cool things.  Highly recommended."
433	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	What a life!  To have danced your life through over 100 years of existence is incredible. This book, artistically chronicles (although somewhat discombobulately) the early life of a Follies performer and her ability to change and adapt to the changing times as well as aging to remain employed and doing her own art.  
434	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	This book is a delightful collage of old photos, interesting history, and wise little quips from an amazing woman who lived an amazing life as a showgirl, dance teacher, rancher, and entertainer. So creative and enjoyable. I loved it!
435	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	 I bought this for cheap, and frankly, I'm glad it was. It's more a scrapbook than a bio and unfortunately, I got bored with it rather than being intrigued by her story. But what dancer could resist checking out such a long-living legend?  
436	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I am a sucker for early Hollywood musicals and Broadway. This book is enormous, lush, image-drenched, a lot of fun. It originally retailed for $75., I waited a few years and recently bought it used on Amazon for less than $10! It arrived today :)
437	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Lauren Redniss is my hero. While I prefer slightly her book on the life of Marie Curie called Radioactive, this too was a gorgeously illustrated book/exploration of one American life. Doris Eaton Travis is the high-stepping grandma you never had, and this book celebrates her radical life.
438	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Century Girl is beautifully designed and illustrated. Though I doubt the idea for a collage biography would have ever occurred to me, I can now imagine no more fitting tribute to a woman who built her life in such an immediate, visual medium the way Doris Eaton did with The Follies.
439	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I read this after reading Redniss' book on Marie and Pierre Curie, and it did not disappoint. Doris Eaton lived a truly remarkable life, and Redniss brings those experiences to life through multimedia and careful prose. Highly recommended. 
440	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Meant to get a hold of this after finishing Radioactive, but forgot until Adam reminded me. This book is kind of a beast! Which would make sense, as Redniss has to cover 100 years. Less of the tangents that I enjoyed in Radioactive, but still a really awesome book.
441	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	The only complaint I have about this book is that the collage style can be a bit busy and can sometimes detract from the original photos of Doris Eaton Travis. Great book for costume and fashion inspiration though. Could also be used as a fun tool to introduce kids to history. 
442	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	An entertaining and interesting story (albeit not without some tragedy). I mostly liked the format of the book (kind of like a scrapbook, which worked well given that the members of the family saved most of their mementos/history in volumes and volumes of scrapbooks). 
443	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	This is the most perfect book! I mean perfect! The book tells the life story of Doris Eaton Travis and is beautifully put together, full of ephemera, cutouts, illustrations/doodles, and a fun text. I think Doris must have had the most catching personality if she was anything like this book.
444	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	the title basically sums up the story but the collage work in this is pretty brilliant--yes--i like the pretty pictures.
445	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Century Girl is a gorgeous and engaging book! The story of Travis' life is thoroughly absorbing, but the presentation is so lovely that you'll want to slowly savor each page.
446	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	A fun read, full of inspirational art and color!
447	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Fascinating biography of Doris Eaton Travis, presented in an engaging scrapbook format. I really enjoyed it.
448	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	This is a darling book to give as a gift- or keep for yourself. Pretty collage like pages featuring dancers from the Ziegfeld Follies. A sweet read
449	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	wow - plucked this off the 'new reads' shelf at the library - a photo/collage tribute to Doris Eaton - fascinating, colorful and inspiring - highly recommend
450	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Lovely!
451	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	4th of July reading party at Wooten and Margaret's place. rec. Wooten zine like biography of youngest ziegfeld girl and her family. 
452	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	The biography of Doris Eaton Travis the last living Ziegfeld girl. The combo of photos and pieces of her scrapbooks is amazing! She lived a full life that was a delight to read about. 
453	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Interesting, but I couldn't get past the size of the book and the sloppiness of the collaging. I LOVE collage/graphic novels, but this true story just didn't hit me the way others have. 
454	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Not nearly as compelling as her Marie Curie bio but there were some interesting facts and the development of Redniss's style.
455	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	 Wonderful, creative book about The Girl of the Century!!! Visually stunning!
456	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I just love this author! Her books are works of art that I think you could enjoy over and over again. This one had some great history about the US and again great design. I thoroughly enjoyed it!
457	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	A wonderful pictorial biography! A easy and fun read, really suggest this unique biography!
458	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	I really like the mixed-media approach of Lauren Redniss's books. However, this is due back to the library and I'm not interested enough in the story to renew it.
459	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	In the style of a scrapbook, this visually beautiful book pieces together the fascinating and long life of Doris Eaton Travis. 
460	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	The art work wasn't as amazing as the work in Radioactive, but the story of the Dandre's life was fascinating.
461	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	Interesting and clever...fun to read due to the artwork!
463	Century_Girl:_100_Years_in_the_Life_of_Doris_Eaton_Travis,_Last_Living_Star_of_the_Ziegfeld_Follies	A stunning book. By turns poignant, gossipy, and just plain pretty. 
464	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"“In the wake of a human being's death, what survives is a set of afterglows, some brighter and some dimmer, in the collective brains of those who were dearest to them...Though the primary brain has been eclipsed, there is, in those who remain. . . a collective corona that still glows”—Douglas Hofstadter  ""I coined the term radioactivity""—Marie Curie  "". . . there is no connection between my scientific work and the facts of private life""--Marie Curie  In this luminous, enchanting illustrated biography of Madame Curie and cultural history of radioactivity by Lauren Redniss, she counters Curie’s own contention, and in chapter headings—Symmetry, Magnetism, Fusion—reveals that scientific terms can also be personal and passionate ones.  Marie Curie essentially killed herself through her work in radium, working closely as well with her husband Pierre. The illustrations Redniss does of them and their work and extending into the twentieth century are lovely, haunting, and sort of luminescent, as my friend Roger says, “largely stemming from the luminescent qualities of the cyanotype,” but there’s an air of mystery about their lives, too. The cyanotype process, from the nineteenth century, is a brilliant choice for the art, as it creates this mysterious glow.  Redniss takes us from Curie to Chernobyl, Hiroshima, Three-Mile Island, and beyond, reminding us of the dangers of radioactivity even as we turn away from oil and gas. So, yeah, you can take that glow as beautiful or haunting, finally.  So much research went into this book! In it she also shares photographs, letters, and maps, and a pretty full text considering that this appears very much as an artistic collage of artifacts. In it we can read excerpts from Curie's dissertation. Curie won two Nobel prizes in Physics (1903)--shared with Pierre), and Chemistry (1911), her own.  Here is the artist Redniss reading from and talking about the book at the National Book Award ceremony (for 2011), explaining her use of the cyanotype process:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JYwmA...  One of my favorite reviews, from Hannah Garden:  “I thought this book was just so lovely. The illustrations are amoeba-y--grave and slender--elegant creepy jellicle elegies for the Curies. I like the text, too--the font is sick and the syntax is precise and gentle, like little wooden pieces that fit together with barely audible clicks.”  And read this deft conclusion to my friend Roger’s wonderful review:  “My only real complaint is that patches on the hard cover are printed in slightly raised ink like fine sandpaper, that you fear coming off on your hands. But close the cover and put out the lights, and you will see their purpose: the book literally glows in the dark!”  Yes, it really does glow, perfect for a book about radium, and memory. We all fairly shouted with joy in this house when we turned out the lights and we saw the images glowing.  My only criticism, though it only undermines my reading of this work a little, overall: In a work that is essentially lyrical, luminous multi-genre graphic poetry, artist Redniss, having done so much research, can’t let go of all the words, and theycrowd too many pages. I get it, words themselves can be luminous, but I’d still be more spare with them, and stick with what works best here, evocative, as happens so much in this book. But I read this from the library and will now buy it, so my experience was hardly diminished much. I learned a lot and reveled in the beauty and the joy of Redniss's multi-layered creation."
465	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Way Outside the Box  So I order this to read for our book club, thinking it would be just a normal account of the Curies' discovery of radioactivity. The book arrives. Surely there must be some mistake; this looks like something for children—pages filled with big colored illustrations mingled with occasional paragraphs of handwritten text. But no, while often childlike, the book is never childish. And the mixture of media gives only a hint of how widely author-artist Lauren Redniss has foraged to fill her cornucopia of art, science, and history.  She starts by apologizing to Marie Curie for ignoring her insistence that ""there is no connection between my scientific work and the facts of private life."" Not only does she make such a connection, she glories in it. Look at the chapter headings of the first part: Symmetry, Magnetism, Fusion—scientific terms, but also personal ones. In the opening chapter, Redniss portrays the separate lives of Pierre and Marie in symmetry, on opposite pages, before showing the magnetism that drew them together as a couple, and the fusion that produced a child. But she also tells us of Pierre's work on the symmetry of crystals, and Marie's on magnetism and radiation. The question of atomic fusion (and fission) lies far in the future.  But Redniss goes there too. At the very end of the first part, amid drawings of Marie and Pierre embracing in their laboratory, she has the words: ""The new science needed a name."" Turn the page to a double spread glowing in a muted cloudburst, containing only the words, ""I coined the term radioactivity."" Then look again, and you realize that the cloudburst is really an atomic blast—not at all in your face, but lurking there as a threat.  Although the longer second part continues with the story of the Curies, it strikes off sparks in many other directions: spiritualism, for example, the dancer Loïe Fuller, a list of famous Poles. A photograph of a man receiving radium treatment for a tumor in 1920 is juxtaposed with the first-hand account of a tumor survivor in 2001. Soon, we are jumping to Chernobyl, the Manhattan Project, and Three-Mile Island, and each time Redniss finds some unexpected witness to bring her message home. An FBI surveillance report; photos of the mutant zinnias and roses found near Harrisburg; the reports of a biologist studying wildlife in the Ukraine. One of the most effective spreads in the book is also the simplest, a black paper cutout used by a survivor of Hiroshima to show how her father's blackened skin peeled away at a touch.  ""A tale of love and fallout,"" says the subtitle. Nothing is predictable, neither the great discoveries nor their unexpected consequences, and love is the least logical thing of all. So by jumping around in subject and time, Redniss is only celebrating the power of surprise. She is thinking outside the box, way outside. The skill with which she balances the glory of the Curies' discoveries and their continued benefits against their terrible consequences would be remarkable even in a book that was all text. But the illustrations offer a further layer of unpredictability. In almost no case does she simply illustrate the action; her drawings are bold, somewhat expressionist, even disturbing. I can't say that I like them as art, but as a constantly shifting matrix for a subject that refuses to be pinned down, their effect is powerful indeed.  My only real complaint is that patches on the hard cover are printed in slightly raised ink like fine sandpaper, that you fear coming off on your hands. But close the cover and put out the lights, and you will see their purpose: the book literally glows in the dark!"
466	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is an illustrated biography of Marie and Pierre Curie and an impressionistic exploration of the marks their pioneering research left on the world. As history, I thought it was great. Extensive reliance on primary sources, juxtaposition of the past (Marie's letters, a Russian map of Chernobyl) and the present (a phone interview with a nuclear security expert, collages by a survivor of Hiroshima), and a thorough list of annotated citations all made for a compelling, believable experience. As a work of art, the singularity of the work is impressive. Redniss not only created all the visuals and wrote the text, but she also designed the font and, I assume, did all her own typography. It's not comics (no attempts to depict time with sequential images), but this form of illustrated non-fiction is certainly unique and interesting.  That said, I'm not sure what the format contributes to the history, or to Redniss's interpretation. The illustrations are beautiful, ghostly, sad, largely stemming from the luminescent qualities of the cyanotypes and a palette of cool blues, greens, and oranges (radium, as Redniss points out in a colophon, glows faintly blue), all of which contribute to the mystery and melancholy underlying the work and lives of the Curies, but I find the line drawings inappropriately dehumanized. Faces are mostly expressionless, with deeply lined eyes, but otherwise rendered with minimal (even child-like) line work, often resembling some of Picasso sketches. The effect is eerie, and I don't think it illuminates the interaction between the deep passions and equally powerful intellects of the Curies in the way the text does.  Honestly, my favorite portion of the book was the quote from Loie Fuller in the beginning (herself a fascinating person at the edge of art and science), which captures the strange liminal sensation of the time (and of this book), when science's push against the boundaries of mystery was something you could see and touch.   To see, to feel, to smell, to hear, to taste, these are the only invisible facts—but which we acknowledge are real—the sensations of horror that kills, of grief that prostrates, joy that uplifts, and faith that cures—what if these things can be registered and seen apart from the body, are they not then material things? And may they not indicate that other invisible materials exist—which are in reality material if we had the human capacity for observing them?... Perhaps Radium and its sister elements may one day help us here. We may not believe, but we do not know that we should not believe!   Also, check out this glowing (apologies) review in the Times.
467	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"It seems absurd to try to talk about this book without you being able to see it. It is easy enough to describe the story Lauren Redniss tells in this graphic biography, but hard to describe the emotional colour her images bring to her words.  The details of Marie Sklodowksa and Pierre Curie's joint biographies are reasonably familiar to readers of science history - his early scientific talent and her struggle to get a scientific education; their romance and marriage; their separate and joint research, and distillation of first radium and then polonium; his early death, and the famous story of Marie taking over his chair at the Sorbonne, walking in and picking up his lecture where he had left it; Marie's ongoing work and passionate (and scandalous) affair with Paul Langevin; her work in World War One with mobile x-ray units, where she was joined by her teenage daughter Irene, who herself went on to become a nuclear physicist, also working with her husband, Frederick Joliot and, like her parents before her, sharing a Nobel Prize with him; Marie's death from aplastic pernicious anaemia, the result of prolonged exposure to radiation, in 1934 aged 66.  What Redniss brings to the pile of literature that already surrounds the couple is a sense of the passion of their relationship - and especially of Marie as a physical and sensual woman - that is coupled to the intensity of their scientific research. I have always been somewhat puzzled, looking at the photos of Marie Curie once out of her teenage years, that this rather shadowy, rather dowdy woman could have been at the centre of one of France's most titillating love stories - that she could actually have duels fought over her. But Redniss makes tremendous use of archival material. From Marie's diary just before Pierre's death, written as the family was on holiday   We collected flowering chestnut branches and gathered a huge bouquet of large water buttercups that you loved so ... We slept nuzzled against each other, as always ... I sat down against you and lay across your body ... I had a little clenching in my heart holding you there, but I felt happy...   And then after his death, run down by a horse-drawn cart on a rainy Paris street   They brought you in and placed you on the bed ... I kissed you and you were still supple and almost warm.... Pierre, my Pierre, you are there, calm as a poor wounded man resting in his sleep, his head bandaged. Your face is sweet, as if you dream. ... My Pierre, I got up after after slept rather well, relatively calm. That was barely a quarter of an hour ago, and now I want to howl again - like a savage beast.""   Four years after death, Marie fell heavily for his former student, the (married) scientist Paul Langevin. The two exchanged torrid letters when separated, even if only for a matter of hours. From Langevin:   I am trembling with impatience at the thought of seeing you return at last, and of telling you how much I missed you. I kiss you tenderly awaiting tomorrow.   Redniss conveys more information in a small number of words than you would expect possible. She doesn't stint on the science or the story, and her style is personal, but never quirky or too I-thinky. You get the sense of someone who has conducted a great deal of researcj, and then pared back and pared back and pared back, without losing any colour.  And colour is at the heart of this book. Where Judith Schalansky's 'Atlas of Remote Islands', similarly a mix of words and images, was restrained in its palette, Redniss' book is joyous and unbounded. The end papers are ochre Rothko-esque colour fields, that feel soaked in pigment; each chapter is signalled by a midnight blue double-page spread with spidery white words picked out across it; the water buttercups are a radiant spray of yellow and red, blue and green. While Redniss' drawing style is not one I would spend time with on a wall - somewhere between Clemente, de Chirico and the happiest bits of Expressionism - paired with her story, it works.  In particular, Redniss has adapted the photographic printing technique of cyanotype, where chemically treated paper is exposed to sunlight, with the positive spaces masked - the sunlight causes a reaction that turns the exposed paper Prussian blue - the colour of old-fashioned blueprints. The areas that were masked seem, when revealed, to let light shine through from a hidden source. As Redniss writes in an endnote   Using this process to create the images in this book made sense to me for a number of reasons. First, the negative of an image gives an impression of an internal light, a sense of glowing that I felt captured what Marie Curie called radium's ""spontaneous luminosity"". ... Second, because photographic imaging was central to the discovery both of X-rays and of radioactivity ... Last, I later learned, Prussian blue capsules were approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a ""safe and effective"" treatment for internal contamination by radioactive cesium and radioactive thallium.   Interpolated with the story of Marie and Pierre's life is the 20th century's radioactive history: Chernobyl, Three Mile Island, radiation therapy, ""fossy jaw"", Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Redniss finds one small detail to illustrate each of these big stories: a woman in Pennsylvania who collects, photographs and presses flowers mutated by the fallout from Three Mile Island; a scientist who researches birds in the area surrounding Chernobyl; a Japanese woman who was 13 on the day the bomb dropped on Hiroshima, who makes for Redniss a paper cutout that shows how her father's blackened skin peeled off his body, exposing the red muscle underneath. Never sentimental, these interludes - especially this last - have incredible emotional heft.  And finally - the cover glows in the dark. What more delight can you ask for?"
468	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is an illustrated biography of Pierre and Marie Curie, and be forewarned that the cover art glows in the dark. It took me several moments to realize that I was not experiencing a paranormal event one dark night.  I have mixed feelings about this book. Marie Currie is someone I have been fascinated with since I was a kid, and it was fun to read about her again, and learn quite a few new interesting nuggets in the process. The art in this book is wonderfully evocative - ghostly and luminous, but towards the latter half of the book, there was almost too much text, and muddling of the main story line. Still, I liked it, and will certainly be reading other books by this author.
469	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I thought this book was just so lovely. The illustrations are amoeba-y--grave and slender--elegant creepy jellicle elegies for the Curies. I like the text, too--the font is sick and the syntax is precise and gentle, like little wooden pieces that fit together with barely audible clicks.  
470	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I loved this book for the sheer fact that when I put it down the other night and turned off the lights it GLOWED. A beautiful book in its genre-bending (is it a biography? A graph novel?) that I highly recommend (although I will note for those who know a lot about Marie Curie's life already it might be a tad boring). 
471	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	4.5 stars- All right graphic novel fans, art lovers, and science nerds, this is for you. This one is a work of art. You get to learn tidbits of science, some juicy gossip, and it is packaged beautifully. It is not, by any stretch, exhaustive for those of you wanting a full biography. My only qualm, if I want to be picky, is you do jump around in time between Pierre and Marie Curie's lifetime and the creation of the atomic bomb and other subsequent uses of their findings. I think it is an artistic choice and it is very attractive but a bit jumpy. There isn't any separation or indication you are moving onto another topic. Still, I would buy this as a coffee table book if anyone who visited me read.
472	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"""My head is so full of plans that it seems aflame...""  From RADIOACTIVE: Marie and Pierre Curie, A Tale of Love and Fallout, by Lauren Redniss, 2011. #ScienceSeptember  A unique and original work that combines stunning artwork, original documentation and archival material, the biography of Marie and Pierre Curie, and the antecedents and ramifications of their discoveries of polonium and radium...  Interspersed within the history and love story of the Curies, Redniss cuts to a later events - Manhattan Project, Hiroshima, Chernobyl, Three Mile Island- to show the Pandora's box of the discoveries in their Paris laboratories. The earth shattering disasters, but also the advancements in medicine with radiation therapy on cancer patients.  Pierre took a vial of radium to dinner parties... Marie slept with it under her pillow. Pierre died in a carriage accident, perhaps spared the inevitable painful death that Marie endured from long term radiation exposure... Their laboratory materials and notebooks still clicking the Geiger counters as radioactive 100+ years later.  Along with Redniss's haunting and imaginative artwork, cast in a glowing blue cyanotype, she shows photographs, letters, and maps, all alongside a detailed text. Excerpts from Marie's doctoral dissertation and mentions of her TWO Nobel Prizes: Physics, 1903 - shared with Pierre, and Chemistry 1911, solo.  💫 A beautiful and innovative work that immortalizes the work and life of these scientific pioneers. Highly recommended for biography, science, and art lovers."
473	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"This was my first graphic novel (well, not really a novel -- graphic work of non-fiction? too long), and I think the medium may just not be for me. If I had to describe this book in one word, that word would be ""distracting.""  I was distracted by everything, particularly the pictures and the artistic but annoying-to-read font. The narrative itself was distracting, jumping around in time and space even though it all connected back to radioactivity. A more tolerant reader might have appreciated the collage-like effect, which clearly involved a lot of effort and creativity. I acknowledge all that, but it just wasn't for me.  Sometimes it felt like Redniss just didn't have that much to say, and was using art and gimmicks (like putting only a few words on a page) to stretch the story to book length. It really felt more like I was reading an article than a book. Sometimes I felt like the story was dumbed down, although that may have simply been a visceral reaction to having pictures in my books which I thought I outgrew a long time ago. Other times I felt like it was over my head with all the chemistry stuff. Science is not usually my preferred reading area, and although I ended up enjoying books like The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks and The Disappearing Spoon: And Other True Tales of Madness, Love, and the History of the World from the Periodic Table of the Elements, I think that attests to the quality of those books rather than to my aptitude for or interest in science reading. Unfortunately, Radioactive: Marie and Pierre Curie is not one of the books that managed to bridge the gap between me and science.  So three stars because I recognize the creativity here and a lot of interesting bits about the Curies and radioactivity, but only three because it just didn't work that well for me."
474	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I thought this was okay. The art wasn't particularly impressive to me and the narrative was disjointed. It would talk about periods of Marie Curie's life chronologically but then it would suddenly jump ahead in time and switch topics periodically. It did contain some interesting information but I would recommend watching a documentary or read a biography about Marie Curie over this. 
475	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A graphic novel on the life of Marie and Pierre Curie. This book is done in mixed media format containing drawings, paintings, photographs, and cyanotype print. This is probably the most interestingly done graphic novel I have ever read. The story of the two scientists is also fascinating. I highly recommend this book.
476	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A stunner of a book. Gorgeously rendered, effervescent and illuminating. History, science, and personal anecdotes compiled into one utterly beautiful graphic biography. Don't miss this one. 
477	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was very informative, but at times the arrangement of the material felt a bit random. I wasn't a fan of the Picasso-esque art. 
478	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I’ll admit that I knew an embarrassingly small amount about the Curies so I learned a lot from this book. I was less impressed with the artwork than I had been with another book I read by this author. However after reading the author’s note at the end of the book about how she created it (cyanotype printing), I appreciated it more.
479	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	THE COVER GLOWS IN THE DARK! Dedication:         With apologies to Marie Curie, who said, “There is no connection between my scientific work and the facts of private life.”     Part biography part historical account, Radioactive looks at Marie Curie’s scientific accomplishments, her personal life, and her everlasting effect on our world. Lauren Redniss’ thoughtful technique provides the reader with a unique visual experience. What Dazzled: I can say I haven’t encountered anything quite like this, or if I have it didn’t leave much of an impression. I was astonished at the amount of information packed into 208 pages where many of the pages were only artwork. The author focuses primarily on Marie Curie beginning with her early years secretly attending college, working as a governess, and falling in love (not with Pierre Curie). Our attention is also drawn to different time periods and the events taking place such as the Manhattan Project and an interview of a personal account of chemotherapy in 2001. Together this was just an amazing package.What Fizzled: I won’t lie, I didn’t love the artwork. Several times I thought, this looks like children’s scribbles. It’s definitely not a style I want hanging on my walls, but I did come to appreciate it. More so when I read the author’s note about cyanotype print and Eusapia LR typeface. Jots and Thoughts: Radioactive really made me think about what is a graphic novel, and whether or not this is one. First, there’s no easy definition of what exactly constitutes a graphic novel. Some guidelines have been used in regard to form, content, and publication. I’m sure as I continue to read more and learn more about graphic novels my opinion will change, but for now I feel Radioactive is right on the line of being considered a graphic novel. In particular there’s three pages dedicated to the topic of Pierre Curie’s death beginning on page 96. The scene starts with text but the next 5 pages rely solely on Redniss’ artwork to convey the events. The horse-drawn carriage pulling a massive cargo load / the driver and horse trying to stop but the load’s momentum pushing them onward / two figures carry a limp body away. Visual storytelling, right? But for the most part the text is what pushes the narrative along while the artwork and photographs provide atmosphere. But that’s not entirely accurate, because there are other great examples of when the text hands the narrative baton to the artwork. This is going to take some time to process. This is being turned into a movie!
480	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	WOW.  This book is a new addition to my list of all-time favorites. Here is a short, incomplete list of the things I loved about it:  1. The subject. It's about Marie Curie, who is one of the most accomplished scientists of all time -- educational and inspiring! It's also about her actual discoveries, and how they changed the way we thought about the very nature of things. Double educational and inspiring! PS: did you know she was the first person, man or woman, to receive two Nobel prizes?  2. The breadth. The book isn't careful about tracking the life of Mme. Curie, or talking only about things she accomplished. It has an easy-going, free-association kind of style, like a conversation with a brilliant and well-read friend, that can range from a list of other Polish superstars to Mme. Curie's sex scandal to the scientists behind the Manhattan Project to the story of a couple who think visits to radioactive caves have helped treat the wife's Hepatitis C. And yet it all feels planned rather than disjointed!  3. The art. I'm a huge fan of books-as-art, where the experience of reading is enhanced by font, paper color and thickness, illustration, text size and color, and creative layouts. This book has all of that, and yet I never once thought a page seemed too busy or that anything lacked a purpose. Instead, every time I turned the page, I looked forward to seeing what my eyes would get to encounter next! PS: some of the images on the cover are glow-in-the-dark! And some of the internal illustrations were created using cyanotype, a photographic printing process that produces a cyan-blue print. Not only is it fitting that these illustrations were created using a chemical process, but the result is reminiscent of the soft glow of radium that so entranced Mme. Curie.  4. The size. This is shaped like a coffee table book, tall and wide but slim. This makes it perfect for displaying and a pleasure to read (although there are one or two pages where the layout requires the font to be just a bit too small for my taste -- but then, having to peer closely at a few of the pages is also part of the reading experience!) This would also make a fabulous gift -- maybe for a new high school graduate?  In short, I can't think of another time when I've seen such a wonderful amalgamation of art and science in a single package. Also, I learned a lot, and enjoyed myself thoroughly (two things that I often experience singly, but nothing beats experiencing them at the same time!)  Six exclamation points in this review: this may be a new record.
481	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Redniss this year got a MacArthur ""genius"" grant for her work, and so I decided to check out her graphic history of Marie and Pierre Curie, which she illustrated and hand lettered, and in which she used a printing technique that allows some of the pages to glow in the dark, appropriately enough.  By and large, I thought this was terrific, except for one small quibble. She interrupted the chronological story of the Curies with somewhat random leaps forward into the present day to explain everything from Three Mile Island to Chernobyl to a cave where people go to get radon exposure, and I thought the technique was a little off-putting at times.  The biographical information was great, though, and I had no idea what a melodramatic life the Curies had led. I knew about how sick they became through exposure to radiation, but I didn't know that Pierre was crushed to death beneath a horse and wagon, or that Marie became involved with a married French scientist five years later, and the ensuing scandal caused some members of the Nobel Prize committee to urge her not to attend the ceremony for her second Nobel.  It was also fascinating to see how her children carried on her work, and to know that she set up many mobile X-ray labs during WWI to help guide surgeons in doing wartime operations.  I marvel at the design work that accompanied the other intensive research for this book."
482	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I had no idea what I was getting into when I picked this book up from the library. I just knew it was recommended highly by others, and as a scientist I was interested in the topic of the Curie's and radioactivity.  My first clue that I was in for something quite different was the size of the book–it was 8.5 x 11. When I opened it I was even more surprised. There were no white pages with black print text, except for an occasional one which was very different from the traditional ones. Instead there were pages with line drawings and cyanotype prints and some text. The cyanotype prints are interesting because they replicate the glow of radium, which Marie and Peter Curie discovered. The text, or print, itself is interesting because it was created by the author for this volume.  The story is interestingly told–how Marie and Pierre Curie loved and studied and discovered radioactivity. But in between the telling of this story are interesting stories and pages about radioactivity subsequent to the Curies and their discoveries: the Manhattan Project, the Nevada underground testing, the Chernobyl disaster, and others.  This is truly a unique and interesting book, and I'm glad I read it, or whatever I did with it. 
483	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	As a total art design project, the book is stellar. Using cyanotype prints is brilliant, the bluish glow irresistible; mesmerizing the enthralled reader like a 50s illusionist until one wonders if a CT Scan needs scheduling. Redniss designed the type (Eusapia LR, named for Eusapia Palladino, a spiritualist, whose seances the Curies attended), and it fits the radioactive subject matter. Reverse white type on a dark background is hard to read; and the orange pages are close to impossible, but perhaps having to peer closely at the text imprints the words better. Interviews with people who have worked with, dug around and been toasted by radiation add mutant flavor to the tale of love and fallout. The Curies' + descendants is a bizarre tale, and Redniss shares it as art that accentuates the horror of the killer elements, the blinding light of the physics, the sublime restfulness of amour, and the ridiculousness of humanity on its quest for the ultimate healer/destroyer. Redniss has created something entirely new - like the Joliet-Curies and their artificial radioactivity.
484	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Gorgeous, improbably wonderful graphic novel about the love affair and scientific work of Pierre and Marie Curie. I saw it first in an exhibition in the New York Public Library, and fell in love with it. The volatility of the elements they were working with… the danger and the excitement… the illustrations are amazing. I still remember those shocking first minutes of seeing what Redniss had undertaken, breathtaking and enchanting.
486	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a genre bending work - part biography, part science writing, part history, all coupled with beautiful collage/watercolor art. Radioactive focuses on the life and love of Pierre and Marie Curie, as well as the life she had after his death. She was a brilliant scientist with a lack of concern for convention. The story alternates between the story of her life and a scientific exploration of the impact of her discovery -- cancer treatments, Hiroshima, Chernobyl, and more. I learned a lot about both the science and the scientists and I will definitely put the movie based on this book on my list to watch. (A side bonus - the cover of the book glows in the dark- how perfect.)
487	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Loved the concept! It was a cool overall view of science and story related to Marie Curie. I can barely say that they successfully ""incorporated"" the science along with the story. It was very choppy as far as when it talked about science and then switched to talking about Marie Curie. The font and illustrations were unique and fascinating but very distracting. Loved how the book went through the lasting impacts (good and bad) of the Curie's research as well as their personal and scientific legacy!"
488	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was just fascinating. I watched the movie about the Curies a couple of years ago and loved it. The illustrations and graphs in this really make it that much more interesting. Plus the images on the front and back covers glow in the dark.
489	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is lovely, but I've had a long held fascination with Marie Curie...
490	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Here's the short form. Radioactive: Marie and Pierre Curie, A Tale of Love and Fallout is a biography of Marie Curie. That is roughly accurate and thoroughly uninteresting. In addition to being beautiful and beautifully told, this book is the story of Marie Curie, of her discoveries of radium and polonium, and of the legacies of them all.  Redniss begins her first chapter, Symmetry, cleverly and counter-intutively. On the left hand page is information about Pierre Curie, whom, we can pretty safely deduce, will be the husband of Marie. On the right hand page is the first news of Marie Skłodowska. So far so good. Turn the page and a non sequitur, more information about Pierre but written in a way that doesn't connect to the previous page.  Ah.  The left hand pages of Symmetry are all Pierre. The right hand pages are all Marie.  Redniss is not always so aggressive about her structure, but it's smart to make her move in the opening pages because it teaches us that we have to be ready for the next trick, whatever it might be. Throughout her writing, the author locates the parallels between the Curies' love, lives, and research, and intertwines them from one chapter to the next. It is a tight and smart dramaturgical trick, nor does she get carried away with it. She discusses Marie Curie's first Nobel prize - in physics, with her husband and fellow researcher Henri Becquerel - and how Alfred Nobel made his fortune from which he could dispense philanthropic cheer via his development of dynamite. Similarly, Redniss notes, the Curies' discovery of radium and its use as a tool for treating cancer is also the foundation of the knowledge that will bring us the atomic bomb.  Then there's the artwork.  ""Cyanotype"" is a photographic processing technique that results in a distinctive blue tint - blueprints! - and is the basis of Redniss's work, although she goes on to paint and add to the basic backdrop throughout. The results are washes of bright color that often as not echo the content of the associated text. Or in the example above, the text on the right mirrors the positive space of the portrait on the left.  Not to be leave anything to someone else's choices, she further designed her own font for the book. The details of the artwork and the design are included at the end of the book.  I'm trying to keep in mind that all of the reasons I think this book is amazing and fantastic are the exact same reasons you might find it pretentious or cloying or overwrought or overly complicated. For me, it is a marvel of nonfiction storytelling that honors not only the subject's chronological life, but also the fallout of that life (Redniss's pun, not mine) and how one person (or one discovery) can ripple out forward. The metaphorical and symbolic possibilities of the artwork further enhance the writing by suggesting ideas and details without claiming them as written text would have to do, albeit perhaps with a caveat here and a caveat there.  This is probably a work that will divide its readership quickly and easily. If you don't care for the artwork, you'll be turned away from the text. The structure is the next hurdle, but I'm willing to bet that if you embrace the first, you'll embrace the second."
491	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Redniss' portrait of Marie and Pierre Curie was a completely surprising discovery. I was at the checkout at my local library when I saw it on the new arrivals shelf. While the librarian was completing some task for me, the cover jumped out, and I threw it on the stack after reading the quick blurb on the back.  What I got was a brilliant – and I mean brilliant – surprise. Evidently, I knew little about the story of the Curies, so to begin, the actual story of their discovery, successes, failures, and mark they left on science, the outcome of the wars, and thousands upon thousands of things we take for granted in modern life is staggering. Marie and Pierre's relationship was beautiful, and so was the Hamilton-esque twists and turns that are presented in stark, well plotted organized chapters. In between much of the action, Redniss presents small intermissions that are directly related to the story thematically, albeit indirect consequences or historical moments that were a result of their work. Some are shocking, some fun, and some horrifically tragic. Finally, throughout the book Redniss has presented exquisite mixed-media artwork, all with a centerpiece of beautiful and haunting cyanotype artwork that illustrates the story.  I was literally at the edge of my seat for this book, reading it twice through – once quickly in that manner one devours a book they are truly enjoying and a second time to savor some of the more poetic, beautiful moments (and visual masterpieces). Of course, I immediately told my wife she had to read it and recommended it to ten or fifteen of my friends – some with a particular fondness of the Hamilton-ness of the plot, while others would enjoy the stark, strong feminism that drove Curie's heart and mind.  My true love for this book came in the middle of the night when, randomly waking to use the bathroom I stumbled through the dark and became shocked that the book was beckoning to me still. The ghostly apparition of it was looking straight at me, and it was only after waking up a little bit more did I realize that Redniss had one little extra easter egg for me in the sheer beauty of It Books' volume... A faint glow outlined the illustrations and the title, the ghostly radiation of Marie's visage stared at me in phosphorescent paint. If there was any question about whether or not I was in love with Redniss' book, they were gone. A truly magical, sad, beautiful, wonderful volume – so rare for adults in the modern era, that I can simply say I have never beheld the beauty of a book like it.
492	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"This is a unique and compelling book.  What I like most about it is how Redniss intertwines not only the scientific and personal lives of Marie and Pierre Curie, but also the lives of many individuals who were influenced by the Curie's discoveries (directly or indirectly). While the overarching Curie story is told chronologically, the other stories are woven in at purposeful times and this makes the connections even more impactful and insightful. For instance, after Marie was contemplating the structure and energy of the atom, the next two pages simply show a picture of an atomic bomb test. This answers Marie's questions with startling force. One of the most moving side stories was of a Japanese girl, Sadae Kasaoka, who survived the bombing of Hiroshima. This was so vivid and moving that it was difficult to read.  ""Then I looked up and saw a strange scene. People, whose whole bodies looked whitish, had their hands up in front of their chests with something tattered hanging from them. They were staggering in procession toward the military hospital, covered in ash. That tattered thing was their peeling skin.""  Redniss uses text, color, layout, quotes, and chronology effectively to create a powerful glimpse into these two important lives and the countless lives that they affected. I use this book when I teach to illustrate the idea of discovery, and how we are continually building upon what has come before and are constantly learning new facets about ""old"" discoveries. I also desire to show how the monumental figures in history are affected in their daily lives and how they are connected with other people, other ideas, and other discoveries."
493	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	okay this is my last review before I go on vacation. [yay!!!] and since I have no intention of talking to any of you while I'm on vacation [nothing personal I'm just not bringing my computer or talking to anyone who isn't my best friend] I better make it good.  This book is perfectly fine. I is not worth the run on it that occurred, but I get why it didn't end up on back order like so many of the others and we got it in again pretty quick. it's nothing to write home about.  BUT do not for a second think I'm saying this is a bad book. It's not, it's just not a great book. What do I mean? The art is seldom relevant to the pictures, it's beautiful but weird and unnecessary. There is a lot of text on each page in a very unpleasant font (subjectivity for the win). HOWEVER, I learned a lot from this book, like all the Marie Curie mythology total bull she knew the radiation was killing her, she wasn't some innocent idiot walking around carrying radium. Generally all the characters very cool people, they don't believe in patenting science, they all were pacifists. They are awesome.  I think you could read this book to kids, it gets a little sexual, but those parts lean more towards the boring then the interestingly dirty so you could probably convince the kid to skip them. Or read them I mean kids are aware of sex aren't they?  It's a good book for people who know nothing about marie curie [me] but aren't willing to spend more than a few hours learning about her.
494	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	My husband gave this to me as an early Valentine's Day gift because he heard about it on NPR and knows me really well--I mean, how could I resist an art book that combines history, science and a love story? That GLOWS IN THE DARK? So yeah, it was an excellent gift.  This is basically the story of Marie and Pierre Curie--their marriage and their work, and the things that came out of both aspects of their relationship. The narrative moves back and forth through history from the late 1800s/early 1900s up to present time, touching on Chernobyl, the poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko, Hiroshima, and many other parts of our world that have been affected in some way by the Curies' work. The art is beautiful and haunting, and though some reviewers have called it passionless, I have to disagree and say that it fits perfectly with the story Redniss is telling here. There's a lot of tragedy that surrounds the Curies and their work, and I think Redniss has done an excellent job of portraying that in her illustrations. And the typeface she created for this project also fits perfectly. It all adds up to make the story feel like a fairy tale.  My only complaint about the book as a whole is that I felt the narrative didn't tell quite as clear of a story as I would have liked. But that's really only a minor problem in my mind--the presentation is so well done I almost don't even care. :)
495	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is a work of art. The cover glows in the dark (radiation!) and the represenations inside are dramatic. The title is accurate. It is a story of love--both for Marie and Pierre together, but also for them with other partners, and for their children. It is a story of fallout because working with radiation had terrible effects on their health. In a larger sense, the fallout was healing for radiation therapy and x-ray diagnoses, but destructive in other terrible ways with nuclear weapons.  The narrative was disjointed at times when we jumped from the Curies to modern day uses of radioactivity. Also as lovely as the book was, the print on bright orange or yellow pages was hard to read.
496	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Beautiful, nearly hauntingly so. Absorbing love story fleshed out by ample use of actual letters between Marie Curie and her lovers. Wonderfully punctuated by historical accounts of the discovery, characterization, and implementation of radioactivity in the modern world.
497	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What a beautiful book! Intriguing collage-like approach interspersing the lives of Marie and Pierre Curie with the legacy of their discoveries, illustrated with both archival images and the author's cyanotype prints. It's a lovely melange with lots to think about.
498	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Great illustrations make this book memorable. It is the story of the Curies and their scientific research.
499	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	“Over our many years together, through thousands of hours of casual and intimate conversations. I had imported lower-resolution copies of the many experiences central to her identity…Some of her memories were so vivid that they had become my own. …the key question is, no matter how much you absorb of another person, can you have absorbed so much of them that when that primary brain perishes, you can feel that that person did not totally perish from the earth… because they live on in a ‘second neural home’?... In the wake of a human being’s death, what survives is a set of afterglows, some bright and some dimmer, in the collective brains of those who were dearest to them….Though the primary brain has been eclipsed, there is, in those who remain…a collective corona that still glows.”   4.5 stars! Just stunning. I did not have the heart to abbreviate the quote above, hopefully you can see why.  Radioactive is a non-fiction graphic novel (a first for me) that covers Marie Curie’s larger than life contributions to science (spontaneous radiation, conceptual radioactivity), medicine (xray technology, radiation treatment for cancer patients, and pop culture (spooderman could not exist if the spider was not irradiated, okaaaay), sprinkled with her private, intelligent musings on topics spanning research to romance. This exploration marvels at this era of scientific discovery, where we were still musing on the unseen, the magic of it all, and the intoxicating nature of naming and shaping the invisible. I live for this stuff. She discovered a fuh-reaking atomic property with the help of her then husband, people. I know we all say our job is slowly killing us, but now I am rethinking the audacity of my hyperbole. I cannot say (yet) that my life’s passion lodged itself snugly into my DNA and eroded my bones until it consumed me from the inside out. That’s equal parts metal as hell, and darkly poetic. But I disgress.  Not all of Curie’s contributions are glowing (pun intended), of which she was aware. She was still alive to witness her child assume the mantle in discovering artificial radioactivity from stable elements, which nearly directly powered the Manhattan project. I cannot imagine the horror one must feel to have your knowledge weaponized so swiftly and powerfully.  Amidst all these compelling biographical elements are these Picasso-like, abstracted humanoid illustrations that are mal-proportioned, overexposed, and eye-catching in an otherworldly way. All in all, this book is artful and imaginative, and I have never read anything quite like it. An easy buy for any scientific history buff (thanks jessie  ) 
500	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	readathon17 book 32: a book where the main character is a scientist  I think I may be cheating because it is a biography of a scientist, Marie Curie (mainly) and also Pierre Curie. I found it very good. It is full of drawings and the text is embedded in the drawings. Apart from the biographic elements, there are also parts that describe the outcomes of the Curies' research, such as the story of a Hiroshima survivor, description of the Chernobyl explosion, nuclear tests in Nevada dessert etc. I learned many thing I didn't know. Did you know people used to decorate their stuff (such as telephone buttons and doorknobs) with radium? Noone knew the repercussions back then. Marie Curie was sleeping with the radium under her bed and she and her daughter were giving x-rays to hundreds of soldiers and stayed in the room. It is so interesting to learn all these things. I think I will read more biographies of scientists. Oh and I liked the general art-style of the book, the drawings are interesting, not what you would call typically pretty, but I liked it.
501	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	3.5 This was a good graphic novel. The pictures were a bit distracting and off at times but the information and story were good. The information about Marie Curie and her husband Pierre was really enlightening. It goes through the whole of Marie's life. It discusses the discoveries and science behind the discoveries. I almost forgot one thing that was distracting was the off shoot stories. There were a few of these which weren't directly a part of the story. They were about Radium or the atomic bomb or radiation. I found these a bit distracting and frustrating mainly at the end. There was one about the atomic bomb in Hiroshima, which I understood why the author included this woman's personal experiences but then I wanted to know what happened to her and it was only a couple page spread. A bit distracting from Marie's life. I did learn a lot from this and would recommend it. Also it was laying next to my bed when I went to sleep one night and the cover has glow in the dark art and I thought that was pretty cool. 
502	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Quirky little book about Marie Curie, the only woman to win two Nobel prizes in different scientific fields; physics and chemistry.  The book is graphically biographical, and is aesthetically pleasing and conveys scientific advancements as well as emotional journey of the scientist. Starting from her parents and ending with her grandsons, the book chronicles each stop in her life and presents it in a simple approachable manner. Sometimes it is a scientific feat, or romantic partners, public outcry, intimate letters, getting married, having kids, sharing romantic and scientific life with partners, and so on.  It is very interesting to witness the life of a female scientist, when such a thing was a rarity, who went on to have an adventurous scientific life.  Along the way, you'll enjoy the graphics and feel the satisfying sweep through pages, all while unintentionally learning about radiation and its use throughout history.
503	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I got this book used & impromptu from a Valentine’s Day book sale, which, now feels xtra fitting bc it was a read for celebrating love. <3The graphic novel aspect made it 10x more fun. I’m sure trying to get the general population interested in buying a book abt the scientists that discovered radium is no small feat.The art is also my kind of style & (as the author describes in the index) has a unique conception central to the theme of radiation, which I very much appreciate :)It also reminded me of how reading a physical book can have such a universally specific routine attached to it. I typically read before bed, so, when I turned off the lights on my first night & the book cover began to glow in the dark it made me feel like I just might have made a small little discovery myself :) it was 100% the cherry on top of an already captivating, sophisticated, graphic novel. Once you read it, if you choose to do so, you’ll see what I’m talking abt! <3
504	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Amazing true story, gorgeous artwork. I knew too little about Marie Curie. Not only a genius, but a flesh and blood heroine and moral compass (though her lover’s wife might disagree). She devoted herself and devoured herself in her quest to learn about and use the powers of radium. This brilliant book also reveals how in our relatively short history the United States made shameful choices (atomic testing in populated areas, questioning by the despicable HUAC of some of the best and brightest, instilling a fear of Russians to act as scapegoat for our own deeds) by weaving in stories about where science led us, for good and evil. 
505	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I LOVED this book! It's so different to what I'm used to reading, yet it was perfect for me. I just love how form and content connect with each other. It's a beautifully illustrated narration of Marie and Pierre Curie's life and work and the massive repercussions of their discoveries on science and history. I knew a thing or two about the Curies and their field of work, but much of the information was new to me and I enjoyed learning new stuff. The story itself is very interesting and the drawings complement and give life to the text, which is rendered in a pretty font. Maybe I've enjoyed it so much because I'm no expert in the Curies or in physics and chemistry.
506	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I enjoyed this immensely. The more I think about it, the more that I think it absolutely deserves a five star rating. I didn’t expect to love it as much as it did, but it’s haunting, it’s informative, it’s so well thought out. It’s just good. The effort that Redniss put into the creation of this book really shows. I loved her storytelling skills and the flip between Marie Curie’s present and the fallout/ripples of her life in the future. I’m so happy I had the chance to see the film adaptation, which led me to this beautiful piece of work. 
507	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a book of art and biography and could be considered Graphic Non Fiction. And while it is a biography of Marie Curie it is also the biography of radioactivity. And did you know; that the atomic tests conducted between 1945 and 1963 has time stamped everyone? Author and artist Lauren Redniss deserves recognition for this wonderful book and work of art.  Art: line drawing, transparency, cyanotype print, hand-colored cyanotype print, shading, dimensional, photography, maps, paper cutouts, charcoal rubbing. The author even created her own typeface based on title pages of manuscripts at the New York Public Library. Named it Eusapia LR.
508	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"This graphic novel was incredible. The amount of work that went into everything from the research with primary sources, to creating the typeface and crafting all the artwork, is stunning. One of the coolest things I learned was that the discovery of X-rays fuelled the rise of spiritualism in the early 20th century. If X-rays could capture things that could not be seen with the naked eye, people thought that maybe clairvoyants could have ""X-gazes"" that allowed them to see across to the other side."
509	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This rating is just slightly inflated because the narrative isn't as coherent as I want it to be, but the artwork and satisfying art-object-ness that Redness obsessively created (a brand new font! glow in the dark paint that is slowly decaying!) makes it so, so beautiful. When the first bomb dropped in Pt. 3 I held my breath. The genealogy of genius in the families somehow feels fascinating and not like smart-people porn.
510	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What an outstanding book I have just read. Precise, yet interesting account of the woman I have always admired as a student. The book talks about how the radioactive elements were discovered and what role some of them have played in both revival and destruction of human life.  I would highly recommend this book to my friends who have a love of science or that of adventure.
511	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was a unique biography, and I agree with others who have a hard time describing its content using only one genre. The thoughtfulness Redniss brought to this subject is clear from the way the images and information are arranged. I especially appreciated Redniss' inclusion of the consequences of Curie's findings (e.g., the atomic bomb) and personal narratives from those affected during the time of Marie Curie's life and those after. It was also lovely to see how Redniss integrated Marie's passion for science and the scholarly and intimate partnerships she had. That being said, I do think I'll also read another book/watch a documentary for more specific information about Marie's experiences as a pioneering scientist.
512	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"If Picasso had ever written and published, his book might have ended up being something like ""Radioactive: Marie & Pierre Curie."" I love books that give me the sense of going through someone's private papers. Disjointed, disconnected, not always a clear context, but utterly intimate, like...how does Redniss say it...two signatures intertwining."
514	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Absolutely brilliant. I quite literally finished this book in one sitting. The prose is poignant and the illustrations are so emotive. Redniss is so brilliant. Her narrative weaves together a myriad of topics and concerns and shows me so much more than just a biography of the Curies. Highly recommend!
515	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	To learn a little about Marie and Pierre Curie, acquire a copy by whatever means are convenient. My means was an electronic copy from the library. It was just fine. But it whets the appetite for a hardcopy. As soon as I can find one......
516	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Very beautiful, incredible story. I thought some of the nuclear bomb stuff was a bit heavy handed. 
517	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Thank you shannon for this amazing book!
518	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is touted as a graphic novel but it is really a biography and love story told in art, snippets of quotes and collages about the marriage of Marie Curie and Pierre Curie.
519	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Simply mesmerising.
520	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A masterpiece, looking forward to rereading.
521	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Very informative, interesting, and cute. Lots of illustrations. Quick read. Subtitle: A Tale of Love and Fallout 
523	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A beautiful work of art, a fascinating biography, and a primer in nuclear science. Genius. 
524	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Astonishing. Wish this had been around back when I studied physics.
525	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I saw a performance of The Half-Life of Marie Curie at a physics conference recently and was intrigued. Marie Curie is one of those names I know, but couldn't tell you much about, other than that her work was related to radioactivity. In the play, I learned that she had an affair with a married man after Pierre's death. I also learned that she won two Nobel Prizes--one for physics, one for chemistry.  This book isn't quite a graphic novel; more an illustrated biography for adults, I'd say. The illustrations themselves are evocative, though not always my style.  Redniss intersperses the Curies' lives and careers with sidebars, largely about the future applications of their discoveries (but also one of prominent Poles; Marie was from Poland and named polonium after it, and was saddened that radium was the element people fixated on). These sidebars are interesting and do provide an interesting context for the book, but the jumps between the body of the book, as it were, and the sidebars could be incredibly jarring. They're generally on a new page, but at least one, one paragraph was about the Curies and the next was...not. It consistently threw me off.  That said, the book is really good. Despite working for a publisher who specializes in chemistry and physics titles, my science knowledge is...not great. Redniss does a good job of making their work understandable (and that really is where those sidebars come in handy). A good book to whet the appetite for further reading about the Curies.
526	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a beautiful book about Marie and Pierre Curie's intimate life. It covers her scientific achievements but also provides the reader with a sense of who the Curies were and the deep affection that underpinned their scientific collaboration. The book also touches on her affair with Paul Langevin but does not overly sensationalize what was, without a doubt, a major and very public scandal in her life. The artwork is beautiful and haunting. Well worth picking this up if you're curious about women in science, Marie Curie, or graphic novels as a form for biography.
527	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	In Radioactive, Lauren Redniss depicts the lives and work of Marie and Pierre Curie through a combination of text and illustrations. Interspersed within this narrative are related stories about the lasting effects their work, mostly that which concerned radioactivity. These include accounts of major events like the Hiroshima bombing, Three Mile Island, and Chernobyl. It also includes other stories about those who go to radon mines for the supposed health benefits, factory workers in the 1920s who became ill from putting paint brushes dipped in radium in their mouths to achieve the fine strokes needed for painting glowing watches, and cancer survivors treated with radiation.  I really liked the illustrations in this book. Quite a few illustrations in this book are created by something called cyanotype printing that creates really compelling images in blue and white. (If you aren’t familiar with it, do a Google image search.) In her afterward, Redniss talks about the reasons she used this technique. One, it makes it appear as though the image is glowing internally, capturing radium’s luminosity. Second, the process uses the principles of photographic imaging, which was central to radioactivity, and finally, the chemicals produced by cyanotype printing can also be used to treat the effects of exposure to certain types of radiation. I found these images very striking before reading her reasons for using them, and hearing her reasons made them even more compelling. The cyanotype prints were beautiful, yet at the same time eerie and rather haunting. It highlights the idea that amidst all the excitement surrounding these incredible discoveries, there is this undertone of something just plain sad, knowing how invisibly poisonous the work environment was and all the bad that would come from the principles they were working to uncover.  While reading this book, I wavered between utter amazement of people’s ability to understand and manipulate our complex world and a complete fear of the exact same thing. So much good and bad can come from same scientific principles. The Curies, like so many other scientists of the era, feared the evil that would come from their work. What a complicated dilemma, to be so intelligent and passionate about your work, committed to knowledge sharing in the scientific community, but at the same time knowing what this knowledge can be used for.  On a happy note, there are other practical applications for the work of the Curies. The principles of the Curie point, which is a relationship between heat and magnetism, are used in plate tectonics, measuring caffeine in beverages, and treating hypothermia. The principle of piezoelectricity is used in propelling droplets in inkjet printers, controlling the beeps of smoke detectors, and reducing vibrations in tennis rackets. I don’t really understand these concepts, but it is nice to think about the scientists sitting around trying to figure out how to measure the caffeine content of coffee or how to make a smoke detector beep and not just those scientists making bombs.  I loved one of the photographs in the book that showed Marie Curie lecturing to a classroom entirely filled with men. Way to go, Marie! 
528	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I think Hannah captures the feel of this book beautifully in her review, you should check it out.  I enjoyed this book viscerally, but it also spoke to a particular interest of mine --- I get super jazzed when I come across a work that would make an EXCELLENT teaching tool. Specifically, I'm currently fascinated by how graphic novels can be used in the classroom to spark students' interest and heighten their learning experience. Now, before you run screaming from this book because I mentioned its educative capacity, I should note that one of the features that makes it so promising is that it looks NOTHING like your typical boring old textbook. It is a graphic novel hybrid that combines gorgeous full page artwork with engaging text, telling the story of the Curies, interspersed with historical information and interviews that span to the present day.  I'll try to keep this brief, but in case anyone is interested, here are the bulletpoint reasons I think this book would make a stellar addition to the syllabus of high school chemistry classes.  - The narrative describing the Curies brings them to life in a relatable way. These aren't just famous scientists who discovered x, y and z. They are people who had their hearts broken, sought out academic opportunities that fed their ambition, found passion for discovery, found love in one another in an intellectual partnership, were driven by curiosity, and who had human flaws. How can we expect young people to envision themselves as scientists if we don't take these figures off pedestals and encourage them to see the people behind their legend?  - Redniss ties in important events relating to radioactivity that happened outside of the Curies' timeline and life narrative (The Manhattan Project, Hiroshima, Chernobyl...) in a way that directly connects the Curies' work to future scientific discoveries, uses, and general historical context. This gave me, as the reader, a much broader understanding and allowed me to draw interesting connections.  - A lot of the complicated science was presented in an accessible way. To be honest, I didn't fully grasp certain concepts, but I imagine that the questions that were raised in my head, and potentially students' minds, would serve as excellent jumping off points for more in depth discussion of the concepts in a classroom setting. And nothing motivates a student's active engagement like a question that they want answered.  - Several of the historical events that were brought up (like Chernobyl and 3-Mile Island) were presented in a way that left me hungry to know more about them. This is one of my favorite indicators of educative capacity -- the extent to which a work inspires a student to want to pursue more information. This book is a great starting point that will likely spark an interest in the subject and has a ton of potential for provoking future avenues of self-directed learning.
529	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"""Radioactive: Marie & Pierre Curie. A Tale of Love and Fallout"" (Harper Collins, 2011), by Lauren Redniss, is a fascinating scientific biography of the famous couple and their family. Along with Henri Becquerel, Pierre and Marie were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1903 for their pioneering work in radioactivity (Marie herself coined the word ""radioactivity""). Marie won a second Nobel Prize in 1911 for her discovery of radium and polonium; in 1935, their daughter and son-in-law, Irene and Frederic Joliot-Curie garnered the Nobel Prize for their discovery of artificial radioactivity. Redniss interweaves her story of the Curies’ scientific progress with accounts of the many ways--both positive and negative--in which their research has touched our lives. There is a moving profile of a Japanese woman who watched her father die after the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima as well as an interview with a young man who was successfully treated for an aggressive tumor with radiation therapy. ""Radioactive"" is also a deeply affecting romance. ""With the constant companionship that accompanied their research,"" Redniss writes, ""the Curies' love deepened. They cosigned their published findings. Their handwriting intermingle in their notebooks. On the cover of one black canvas laboratory log, the initials ""M"" and ""P"" are scripted directly one atop the other."" Their romantic and scientific collaboration was cut short in 1906 when Pierre was struck and killed by a horse-drawn carriage. A few years after Pierre's death, Marie had an affair with a married man that provoked such a scandal that she was advised not to attend the Nobel ceremony where she was to accept her second prize (she went anyway). Marie died in 1934 as a result of prolonged exposure to radiation; it surely would have killed Pierre as well if the horse hadn't done so first. Last, ""Radioactive"" is a remarkable work of art; it is simply a beautiful book. Redniss illustrates her text with photographs, line drawings, and cyanotope prints that seem to glow with the luminosity of radium. Even the choice of using cyanotype printing ties into the theme of radioactivity. The process uses light-sensitive chemicals that form a compound commonly known as Prussian blue, an approved treatment for exposure to certain types of radioactivity. There is even an amusing ""Radioactive Bestiary and Garden"" at the end of the book, featuring (among others) Spider-Man, who gained his superhuman abilities after being bitten by an irradiated spider, and Brazil nuts, the world's most naturally radioactive food. ""Radioactive"" is not specifically marketed as a book for young adults, but the science is accessible enough for most teens. Redniss' gorgeous artwork will win over readers with a more artistic bent. This is bound to be one of my favorite books of the year.  Review first published in the News-Gazette, April 24, 2011. For more YA book reviews, please visit my website at www.saralatta.com    "
530	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"(Reviewer Background: Recently made work using cyanotype process. Recently wrote paper about atomic bomb testing. Rarely reads history or biography. Picked book up on a whim. Possibly compensating for tendencies in self and others to rate high.)  ""It was okay"" sounds about right.  I respect the author's experimental approach to the non-fiction book format, but some aspects work better than others.  The integration of art adds certain feels, but unevenness of production is a bit distracting for me. The typeface Redniss designed for the book works for the shorter lines coupled with visuals, but they become unreadable walls of text beyond that. Rhythm changes are incorporated, with varying success.  Interdependent professional and personal life is a major theme of the content, mirrored in its form. Chapter heads have double meanings, focus flips back and forth strategically, quotes foreshadow... but the content soon becomes scattered. Transitions deteriorate. The author brings in many interesting stories from after the Curies' time, but doesn't seem to know quite how to integrate them. After, jumping back in time is a struggle. Her effort to remove herself from the content, to remain ""objective"" outside structural choices, editing, and the surprise note section, sometimes takes away from the heart of the book, and its integrative approach.  Overall, lots of interesting things going on. The author has good intentions, and makes many clever decisions, so my objects of ridicule may be intentional conceptual choices. Regardless, execution needs tweaking.  I hope Redniss keeps making things."
531	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Besides researching and writing this book, the author designed its type and created its art work. She used paper coated with light sensitive materials, imaging which was critical to the discovery of X-Rays and radiology. Lauren Redniss well deserves the National Book Award nomination for her writing and for her bibliographic art.  The book has the feel of its content. The use of color illustration and positioning of type on the page evoke the images of radiation both good and the bad. The story is both tender and sad with just the right color and drawings - light or heavy as the story commands.  While the ""fallout"" of the Curies' work is well known, the story of their lives is not. The man of this couple, which jointly ushered in the modern world, was killed in a horse and carriage accident and later, the woman's next partner fought 5 duels over her honor. Their daughter went on, with her spouse - a protégé of the dueler - to win a Nobel for the discovery of artificial radioactivity.  The legacy of their discoveries from life saving uses in medical technology to life extinguishing uses in bombs, to environmental havoc of power plant melt downs are portrayed. The political side is shown in portraits of those who sacrificed to warn of the dangers.  This is not an in depth study, nor does it purport to be. It is a tribute to the Curie family, with special emphasis on Marie. It is a breakthrough in book design and in presenting complex scientific material, personal relationships and social and political currents of history. "
532	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I had heard the name Marie Curie, but I did not know much about this pioneering scientist. Wow, what an eye-opener. She was born in Poland in 1867 and moved to Paris in 1891, to study science at the University of Paris. A couple years later, she meets Pierre Curie, an instructor at the School of Physics and Chemistry. They soon marry and begin blazing a path, that will bring both wonder to the world and incredible destruction. This all will launch, with their discovery of polonium and radium, which sets off a long list of breakthroughs, leading to “radioactivity”, a term they both coined. I think we know where this is heading. I am not much of a science geek, but I do not think there has ever been a pairing, in the history of science, that has reached these monumental achievements. The couple ended up winning the Nobel Peace Prize for physics and eight years later, Marie earned a second one for chemistry. Yes, this wonderful graphic biography, is a love story and a scientific history lesson but it is also explores the horrible repercussions: “The Fallout” part of the title. Hiroshima, Three Mile Island and Chernobyl make appearances, along with a few lesser horror stories featuring the evils of radiation. I cannot express how perfect this all comes together, with simple illustrations and a vibrant palette of colors, all held together with a strong narrative drive. Find this book!
533	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"It's a biography of the Curies but also a work of art. The illustrations tell their own narrative as beautifully as the text. It truly made me care about the Curies and their era in a way that I wouldn't have normally. In addition to the gorgeous pictures, the author includes stories you probably would never had heard anywhere else. For example, she tells about all the young women in New Jersey who were hired to paint watch dials with the ""undark"" paint that was made from radium, who subsequently came down with all sorts of horrible symptoms (up to and including death) from twisting the paintbrushes between their lips to keep the tip sharp. She also tells how the Curies were so fascinated by their new-found element that they would take it home in a jar and show it off at dinner parties--in fact, Marie even used a stick of radium as a nightlight for a while. And, get this, after Pierre's death, Marie took up with a married man and her lover nearly fought a duel to defend her honor against a newspaper columnist (take that 20th-century TMZ). All the while, Redniss is paralleling the lives of the Curies with the ""life"" that radium takes on. There are interviews with cancer survivors whose lives were saved by radiation. There's an interview with a survivor of Hiroshima. And I have to admit, the bit about the buttercups made me cry. You'll see what I mean."
534	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Considering that the last biography I read about Marie Curie was the 1979 ValueTale The Value of Learning: The Tale of Marie Curie, I was looking forward to a more sophisticated book.  The illustrations, made by cyanotype printing, seem to cast a glow not dissimilar to radium's 'spontaneous luminosity'. While the making of the images is interesting, the art itself is very simple and feels more like doodles than finished work. The biography starts with the Curies' childhoods and charts their love and research, the latter rendered in comprehensible language for the non-science-y reader. The subtitle of the book (A Tale of Love and Fallout) refers not only to the couple's relationship but to the nuclear implications or fallout of their work. While this aspect of the book is very important and interesting, the placement of asides about cancer radiation, a member of the Manhattan Project, Hiroshima, 'Doom Towns', Chernobyl, etc feel off; they seem to disrupt instead of flow from the biographical narrative.  Laura Redniss has created a disjointed art/biography but, since I get distracted by pretty things and since it has taught me new information, I rather liked it.
535	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Read Maria Popova's review on the Brain Picking website and immediately ordered my own copy. (Uh oh- think my ""to-read"" list is getting a little out of hand!)  What the periodic table has to do with obscure photographic techniques and Italian erotic séances.  ""To stay true to Curie’s spirit and legacy, Redniss rendered her poetic artwork in an early-20th-century image printing process called cyanotype, critical to the discovery of both X-rays and radioactivity itself — a cameraless photographic technique in which paper is coated with light-sensitive chemicals. Once exposed to the sun’s UV rays, this chemically-treated paper turns a deep blue color. The text in the book is a unique typeface Redniss designed using the title pages of 18th- and 19th-century manuscripts from the New York Public Library archive. She named it Eusapia LR, for the croquet-playing, sexually ravenous Italian Spiritualist medium whose séances the Curies used to attend. The book’s cover is printed in glow-in-the-dark ink.  ...Stunningly beautiful in both concept and execution, Radioactive is a rare cross-pollination of art and science, the kind of storytelling that makes us care about stories.""  Who can resist the lure of a book like this? Certainly not me.            "
536	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Find this review at Where's My Bookmark?   Book received in exchange for an honest review  Radioactive depicts the personal and scholarly life of Marie Curie and the people she grows to love and the people she comes across. In a unique and vivid format, Lauren Redniss illustrates and shares the ups and downs of Curie’s life from her arrival in Paris, her scientific discoveries, and her public life.  Radioactive is such a fun alternative to a regular ol’ biography. It’s filled with vivid art and easy to read text. I especially liked the inclusion of various other information and tidbits relating back to the Curie’s work and the interconnectedness between their work and other scientists.  Not only is it informational and crafted with stunning illustrations, Redniss took extra care in showcasing all that could be possible in sharing a biographical work - adding special features from the font of the text to the ink the pages are printed in.  Also, a really awesome perk, some sections glow in the dark, just like the radioactive materials Marie and Pierre Curie discovered.  It’s a beautiful book and a must have for your personal library.  Read if you like: non fiction - biography, science, graphic novels, illustrated works,
537	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was a strange and intriguing book. I'm not sure if I've read anything like it...the closest I can compare it to would be the Griffin & Sabine books. Radioactive is a dual history of Pierre and Marie Curie's discoveries in radioactivity and the impact those discoveries have made on history, coupled with the personal stories of several characters, with a focus on Marie Curie. I don't think I've thought once about the Curies since I graduated high school (science is not my forte), but I'm glad I learned more about them and their work.  This is a large-sized book, with a mix of collage, drawing, old photographs, and articles all meshed together. It is really beautiful. Redniss has this unique device where she switches back and forth from the Curies' history to random accounts by other scientists, workers in nuclear energy today, or even victims of the Hiroshima bombing. At first, it's jarring, but then I realized that each interruption was meant to make the reader think of the consequences of the Curies' research in radioactivity, something they thought was exciting and full of possibility. The book elucidates both the beauty and the horror of radioactivity without thumping you over the head with it.
538	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	When I was in second grade, I was bored and my teacher did what all good teachers do when they have students who are bored in class: she assigned me a research project.  My research project was on Marie and Pierre Curie.  Here I was, seven years old, reading about radiation and atomic particles and nuclear energy. I was fascinated, even if I didn’t quite get everything I read.  The minute I saw this book, I knew it was a book that I had to read. If nothing else, I wanted to see if I understood radiation and atomic particles and nuclear energy any better this side of life.  Even though this book was a National Book Award Finalist, I could not find it at any of the seven libraries to which I have cards. I finally broke down and bought it.  It was a worthwhile purchase. I’d classify it as a graphic novel, a picture book for grownups, with brilliant illustrations that add to the text.  Lauren Redniss, who wrote the text and created the illustrations, tells the story of Marie and Pierre Curie, a story of the power and destruction that came with the discovery of radiation.  One of my favorite reads of this year.
539	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	It's the attention to detail that puts this book over the top for me. Just picking it up you can tell it's a beautiful, fascinating account of the lives of Marie & Pierre Curie (as well as her other love interests and children), and though it's full of hard science that's balanced with quotations from letters and interviews that make it all tangible. As far as the detail goes, I don't just mean the personal touches Redniss adds with the interviews, but also that her very artistic process using a font face she designed from New York Library manuscripts and cyanotype prints that make each drawing seem to have a radioactive glow...plus the book itself also glows in the dark.  Redniss also makes this more than a simple love story - it's complicated by the historical fallout (pun intended) of the Curies' research and questions around science, ethics, and personal responsibility.  This was the first book I've picked up recently that made me realize that not all books are going to work electronically - there's no way you could read this on an iPad even if it were available and have the same experience.  
540	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"As effusively praised in the New York Times .  HT:http://www.slate.com/id/2280395/, as emailed to me by my mother.   This book glows in the dark! Just like radium!  ...Do you think that it has radium in it?   For some reason the title here does not give the proper subtitle: ""A Tale of Love and Fallout"".  Marie Curie was in what we would now call grad school from 1895-1903 (eight years), and had a baby in 1897 (her third year). In 1903, Marie Curie became the first woman to earn a doctorate in France, and was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for her work later that year. Why isn't the turnaround that fast today?  She did earn her doctorate, and inherited Pierre's professorship after his untimely death, so I'm not entirely sure why we call her ""Mme Curie"" and not ""Prof. Curie"" or ""Dr. Curie""."
541	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A truly luminous graphic biography of Marie Curie, Pierre Curie, and their work. The graphics immersed you into this book, as well as the clever way Redniss interspersed the linear timeline of Marie Curie's life with seemingly random (but highly relevant) vignettes regarding radiation, accidents, and science.  There was just enough details to give me an understanding of Curie's work without devolving into a scientific treatise. I was left wanting to know more and wondering why Hollywood has completely failed to bring this important woman to life on the silver screen. The tragedy of the untimely death of her husband, her highly controversial love affair with fellow scientist Paul Langevin, and the fact she is the first PERSON (let alone woman) to win two Nobel Prizes would make for a thrilling film adaptation.  My library is featuring this work as our Book to Art Club selection, and I could not be more pleased. I hope our club enjoyed it as much as I did!  
542	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is the Big Read choice for UW Madison this year and it is really a great little book. Barely 200 pages, not very long especially when you consider the large amount of illustrations and cyanotype printing (as the author notes, it makes the illustrations glow with the same luster that Curie used to describe radium). I learned a lot about Marie and Pierre Curie and the vast influence their discoveries and research has had on our world - most for the better but some unfortunately for the worst. I found myself frequently reading bits and pieces of this aloud to my family and now my 13 year old son is reading it too. He's especially interested in the Chernobyl information. I really liked learning about how radium was used and misused and how Curie wasn't just the first woman to win 2 Noble Prizes in her life, she was the first scientist to ever win twice-you go girl! 
543	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"This visually stunning and emotionally moving graphic novel is not only a biography but also an exploration of the ramifications of the Curies' scientific discoveries. Consequently, Marie and Pierre's courtship is interwoven with explanations about radium and x-ray technology; Marie's unhappy affair after her husband's death is interwoven with the horrors of Chernobyl and Hiroshima. The author elegantly titles her chapters (""Symmetry,"" ""Magnetism,"" ""Fusion,"" etc.) with scientific/romantic double entendres, adding to the sexiness of it all. Though the project falls a tad short of its mark, it's a case of ""shoot for the moon and if you miss you will still be among the stars."" Satisfying and thought-provoking. "
544	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a gorgeous graphic novel about Marie Curie, her work, and her relationship with Pierre Curie. Lauren Redniss' artwork mimics Curie's journals, and although this might be a bit basic for someone who has a lot of previous Curie knowledge, it's still a lovely a book. Though I received it awhile back, it got misplaced in the madness that is my bedroom, and rediscovering it was its own revelation. Ah, this. Yes, this is what I need right now. I'd love to read more biographies that merge art and facts in this way.  (See the rest of my Top 10 Favorites read in 2015 at Glorified Love Letters.)
545	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I enjoyed learning the information in this book, but the delivery was very cut and dry. Judging by the title, I expected something more like The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Much more emotionally involved and actually trying to get the reader involved in her, not just the science. Also, the images looked like they were drawn by a small child without the effect of being adorably odd. Now, usually there is a reason to illustrate things a certain way, but I couldn't for the life of me figure out the significance of drawing that way. Altogether a disjointed novel. I wouldn't recommend it unless it were to be studied academically.
546	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What an extraordinary book, intended in the full sense of the word extra-ordinary. This is not your typical biography of famous scientists, or the story to two star-struck lovers. While I expected to learn more about the work of the Curies, the author brought me to Hiroshima, Chernobyl, Three-Mile Island and far beyond. These were both unexpected diversions, unexplained and curious. I'm still not sure what to make of the information presented, but it is unlike anything I ever read. And then there are the illustrations: cyanotype prints of lovely/ugly figures, city scapes, and crystals. The illustrations are bold, odd and beautiful; capturing the complexity of the story presented. 
548	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I can see why this is well-acclaimed. If you are already steeped in the history of Marie Curie and her legacy, then this will not have much you do not know (except for perhaps the personal, more biographical details of her life), but if, like me, you only have a cursory knowledge of these topics, then this fantastically illustrated and meandering biography of the Curies, their work, their love, their legacy will have much to offer. I enjoyed it.  Note: This is very text heavy. There are quite a few study drawings / nudes in the artwork, though nothing scintillating.
549	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This amazing book by Lauren Redniss is part scrapbook, part art book, part biography of the remarkable Marie Curie,winner of 2 noble prizes. Creative, unique, with a glow in the dark cover, images printed in cyanotype,includes a charcoal rubbing from the curie crypt, diagrams and discussion of Hiroshima, Chernobyl as well as the Manhattan Project. Difficult for me to rate this book, certainly 5 or more stars for creativity but less for the actual text.
550	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The book was beautiful to look at at but on certain pages the font layout was a bit irritating. Story was the parts that were about Marie were wonderful however the interjections about modern history of radium took away from the flow of the story. It would have been nicer to read if those stories had been told in separate chapters from Marie's personal story. This is more a 3.5 star than a 3. It is really a lovely book. 
551	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Radioactive does not fit neatly into the graphic non-fiction definition. In fact, it doesn't fit neatly into any known genre! Redniss does not use the comic strip format, but her art work is an integral part of the story and she created her own font for the text.  It is non-fiction - part biography, part scientific treatise, part philosophical discussion. And it is beautiful.  http://bronasbooks.blogspot.com.au/20...
552	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A lot is packed into this short book--a decent brief biography of 3 generations of the Curie family, some accessible scientific explanations of radioactivity, artwork on almost every page, and jumps into recent times showing how people are using radioactivity and what they think about it.  The book is a kind of hodge-podge but it works somehow.
553	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	It spun biography beautifully with thoughtful history, and made you ponder modern developments and their effect on society. Not only was it impressive to see the meaningful contribution of one woman to our current world but also to shed light on the poetic connection between history and science, captured in colorful illuminating strokes.
554	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I loved this book. As a graphic novel, it is appealing on so many different levels. The art, the choice of color, the type set and the glow in the dark cover compliment the language and story of Marie and Pierre Curie. The book is engaging as biography, love story and science journal. I will look forward to reading the next book by Lauren Redniss.
555	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is GORGEOUS! I love books that require reading on paper (not electronically), and this one fits the bill. An artistic masterpiece in addition to being a compelling story, written in an extremely creative style. If you love graphic novels, picture books, and/or biographies, definitely check it out!
556	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Love, science, and radioactivity - what more could you want. Oh, right, ethereal art to go with it. This book is a thing of beauty. I love when a writer/artist is able to bring forth the literary-ness of history.
557	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Really lovely book—it wasn't really what I expected (was thinking it would be a more classic graphic novel) but truly beautiful. The art is incredible and the way the story skirts through history to get at the Curies' importance: wonderful. 
558	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Everything is magic until science comes around. I liked this but didn't care for the layout. Really great story and parallels but kind of jumped around a lot. Still, liked it more than I didn't. Smart people in love. 
559	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I give this almost 4 stars. Loved the concept of mixing art, text, versions of some primary documents. Marie Curie seems like a fascinating person and her story is compelling. And her daughters continued the work of her and her husband!
560	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A beautiful combination of art, history, and science.
561	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Lovely book, gorgeous artwork. Fascinating story. Now I want radium painted bedroom slippers, not! Highly recommended!
562	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	recommended by Vasilly
563	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A brilliant, vibrant work of imagination.
564	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A very beautiful, interesting graphic account of the life of Marie Curie - interspersed with informative and sometimes heartbreaking reminders of where her research led.
565	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Very intriguing. Painted a brief, intense picture of Marie and her family as well as the consequences of their research. An artistic representation rather than a full biography. 
566	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	It's really a 4.5, but I don't want to round-up for this one.  Super good! Notes after review.  Science is romantic.
567	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	It was beautiful, and an incredibly interesting book about Marie Curie's life.
568	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Did anyone else notice that the book glows-in-the-dark? I liked the random ""infomercials"" ALOT but found a lot of the art creepy. Especially the hands."
569	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What a beautiful and mesmerizing story of a truly sensational woman. 
571	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is such an awesome book!
573	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What a fantastic and beautiful book. Redniss tells the story of the Curies alongside a brief history of radioactivity -- all illustrated with moving artwork and bold colors.
575	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	incredible! Unique--a book you have to own and reread and cherish 
576	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	There is something like jazz here, in a visual retelling of Marie Curie's life.
577	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Radioactive: A Tale of Love and Fallout is an unusual graphic biography by author-illustrator Lauren Redniss. It has recently been adapted into a film directed by Marjane Satrapi (of Persepolis fame), which is how it came to my attention, though I have yet to see the movie. Redniss tells the stories of Marie and Pierre Curie, two of the most important scientific minds of the early 20th century, chronicling both their personal and scientific lives.  Some who understands art could give a much better description than myself, but I found Redniss’ style to be something of a cross between Pablo Picasso and Terry Gilliam. I’m admittedly ambivalent on the aesthetic aspects of it, though the cyanotype printing process that Redniss employed does beautifully fit with the themes of the work. The whole book is permeated with a certain sadness, one which comes from the reader knowing what radiation poisoning is, unlike the pioneers of radiation theory.  The work itself is somewhat hard to classify, sometimes shifting between dry biographical prose and “fairy tale” poetry, interspersed with discursive discussions about everything from Hiroshima to Chernobyl, and even a few primary documents. In terms of sheer factual content it’s not particularly dense – you’d probably learn just as much reading a few Encyclopædia Britannica articles – but it’s the way that the story is told that grabs you. Redniss clearly did her research – the endnotes are filled with references to the personal papers of the Curies themselves – and has interviewed a wide spectrum of individuals with some connection to the world of radioactivity. (Though I’m going to be a pedantic nitpicker and point out that the original Godzilla was not created by hydrogen bomb fallout, as the “Radioactive Bestiary and Garden” alleges, but merely awakened from His ancient slumber by hydrogen bomb testing.)  On the whole, Radioactive does a good job of providing humanizing insights into the life of Marie Curie, but struggles a little when trying to explain where she fits in to the history of scientific discovery. Much of the discursive sections seem to hold the Curies at least partially responsible for the world of nuclear weapons that followed them. While there are brief discussions of the other scientists who paved the way for the Manhattan Project, I think the framing places too much credit/blame on the Curies for the secondary consequences of their discoveries. Great if you’re searching for nuggets about the lives and the world of the Curies, but it should definitely be supplementing some other source.
578	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This week I took Einstein, Blossom, and Ladybug in for their annual portraits. A toy store sits right next door to the portrait place. In the window sat Ladybug’s bliss: a giant plush Sesame Street Abby Cadabby doll. Abby easily stands four feet tall. Ladybug has talked about it for three days straight, and she has a birthday coming up. I love the idea of her opening a huge box on her birthday, finding Abby, and flinging her arms around Abby’s fairy wings, so I stopped to ask the price.  Well. It was prohibitive, at least when weighed against our usual spending range for birthdays. Plus, there’s no telling with kiddos. Maybe she would love it for years; maybe she’d ditch it in the corner after a few days. Either way, the cost was more than I was willing to pay.  In contrast, for the three authors whose books I’m reviewing this month, the costs faced could not stop wholehearted pursuit of a passion. In fact, paying the price left each of the women in a freer place than before. Anne Lamott, Yoani Sánchez, and Lauren Redniss delineate the workings of hearts entranced in their respective books Some Assembly Required, Havana Real, and Radioactive: Marie & Pierre Curie: A Tale of Love and Fallout.  Anne Lamott, whether you find her infuriating or delightful, never shies away from facing up to her own faults. By her own admission, she loves to helpfully meddle in the lives of her people, and she ruefully confesses her realization that “helpful” often sounds like “interference.” However, Anne encounters, early in this account, a love she can’t ignore or resist: love for her newborn grandson, Jax, a baby whose pull is almost magnetic in its involuntary force.  In the wake of her love for Jax, Anne gives up (for the most part) something she might otherwise have justified, even to herself: her “right” to meddle with her son, and co-author, Sam and his girlfriend, Amy. Jax’s parents. Anne finds, to her astonishment, that as her love for Jax grows, so does her ability to allow Sam and Amy to parent as they will, to relate as they wish, to decide on their own future, and Jax’s, without her input. Or at least without all of it.  This ability allows her to embrace a shared moment with Sam at a Hindu meditation gathering. On a later trip to India, Anne receives a conference call arranged by the leader of that gathering. The ensuing conversation, mostly shouts from the leader, punctuated by bursts of affection from Sam, Amy, and Anne, leaves her laughing, crying, and grateful.  In true Lamott fashion, an irrepressible faith and sink-into-able love win out. Anne and Sam Lamott light the way for many who, as grandparents, will need to pay the cost of such an overwhelming love – the cost of keeping out of the parents’ finding their way. And Anne does this in a mostly gracious, always humorous, way when she writes, “Because I’m human, which is to say crazy in some respects, and some people who shall remain nameless tricked me into loving them too deeply and ruined my life.”  Though the humor is wryer in Havana Real, Yoani Sánchez’ collection of posts from her popular (and banned in her native Cuba) blog, Generación Y, Sánchez’ indelible optimism and determination comes through clearly. Sánchez, a native of Havana, moved to Switzerland in 2002, but returned to Cuba – against the advice of family and friends – in 2004. Determined to live freely, Yoani started her blog to tell her own story of her experience as an everyday Cuban facing difficulties under the longstanding Castro regime. Since then, as her book details, she has been blocked from her own blog when it was removed from public servers available in Cuba. But beyond that, officials keep her under surveillance, refuse her entrance to public gatherings, and have abducted and beaten her.  Still, Yoani blogs on, and not only writes her own blog, but trains other Cubans to begin their own blogs. From her efforts, dozens of Cubans are telling their stories to the world.  Why would she risk everything to do this? Why would she come back from living in comfort and freedom in Switzerland, putting herself in danger and by her own admission, giving her beloved son Teo a rockier childhood than he otherwise might have had? As I read, one main reason impressed itself on me: Yoani Sánchez loves her country and longs for its freedom more than she values her comfort. As she writes, “I have indeed committed a heinous offense: I have believed myself to be free… I refuse to accept the systematic swatting at my ‘rights as a citizen’… [T]hough I have never stolen anything from others, they want to ‘steal’ again and again, that which I believe belongs to me: an island, its dreams, its legacy.”  The legacy left by the subject of Lauren Redniss’ visually stunning book Radioactive: Marie & Pierre Curie: A Tale of Love and Fallout, Marie Curie, is almost incalculable. Marie, born in Poland, emigrated to France to pursue a career in science. The first passion that caused her to leave something else behind was her love for Pierre Curie. Their work-and-love affair achieved an importance to Marie that even overrode her deep desire to return to Poland. Pierre, Redniss writes, “saw a woman who would not fetter his scientific ambitions but rather act as collaborator, muse, and guide.”  In a mix of haunting artwork, explanations of the Curies’ work, and modern-day uses and consequences of their discoveries (inkjet printers use technology that Pierre Curie invented), Redniss argues that the Curies’ devotion to their scientific careers gave them deep satisfaction. “With the constant companionship that accompanied their research, the Curies’ love deepened. They cosigned their published findings. Their handwritings intermingle in their notebooks.”  The Curies discovered radium and polonium (named for Marie’s beloved Poland), and spent years observing their effects. “The Curies had demonstrated the existence of radium and polonium through their radioactivity, but fellow scientists remained skeptical. It was as if the elements had been grasped only by shadows, and so could be considered no more definitive than, say, the word of a Spiritualist medium. Chemists in particular wanted to see them, to touch them. Only concrete evidence would be persuasive.”  It took the Curies four years to distill 1/10 of a gram of radium chloride from raw materials.  Passion for science, and their work with radium, cost them a great deal of time, but more importantly, it began to cost them their health. Marie was too ill to travel to Stockholm to accept their first Nobel Prize. She suffered miscarriages and developed fibrous lesions. Pierre grew so ill he had to resign his post at the Municipal School of Industrial Physics and Chemistry at the Sorbonne. Redniss writes, “Radioactivity had made the Curies immortal. Now it was killing them.”  Still, in the face of health concerns, Marie’s passion for scientific discovery allowed her to view her own symptoms as information, her own mortality useful in her pursuit of scientific advancement. She “chronicled her own deterioration as laboratory data,” including on her charts her temperature, color and amount of urine, and amount of pain.  Marie Curie died of anemia due to radiation exposure. She, the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, had won two when she died. Her professorship at the Sorbonne was the first time in 650 years of the university’s existence that a woman earned one. Her daughter Irène won a Nobel Prize with her husband. Her granddaughter Hélène became a nuclear physicist, her grandson Pierre a biophysicist. The work she did with her husband has had lasting effects on our lives. Radiation is still used to fight cancer, to give one example, and of course atomic bombs come to mind.  For all of these women, a love stronger than their love for themselves caused them to consider what price this new love was worth. Thankfully, all three of these authors chose to chronicle devotion, to give us the chance to learn how to calculate and navigate those choices for ourselves.
579	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A strange and impressionistic book about Marie Curie, radium, atomic weapons, cancer, and a million other things. Marie Curie: “The sensitive plate, the gas which is ionized, the fluorescent screen, are in reality receivers, into another kind of energy, chemical energy, ionic energy…luminous energy.” This was more than a biography. It intertwined Marie Curie’s love life with the very elements she studied – connecting random dots along the way to build a swirling web of science and art. The author illustrates every page and writes the book in a font that resembles handwriting. The visual experience of the book is stunning. So creative! I listened to the story on Audible first; imagine my utter surprise when the printed book came in the mail full of drawings, paintings, chalk art, charts, maps, and other ephemera. Buy the actual book!  The chapter titles give you a sense of the book’s breadth – Symmetry, The Instability of Matter, Isolation, Magnetism, Half-Life, Daughter Elements. Redniss weaves Marie Curie’s life story and quotes into Hiroshima, Chernobyl, the Nevada Test Site, Three Mile Island, and Robert Oppenheimer. My parents were Downwinders; I could not look away. Just the bare facts of Marie’s exceptional intelligence are shocking: as a young woman in the 1890s she joins The Flying University (a secret network of 1,000 women in Poland defying the Russian grip on education), at 18 she makes it to the Sorbonne in Paris where she earns degrees in math and physics, at 26 she works in a lab with a Nobel Prize winning scientist, by 36 she is the first woman in France to receive a doctorate and wins her first Nobel Prize. In the meantime, she falls in love with fellow scientist, Pierre Curie, of whom she writes, “he caught the habit of speaking to me of his dream of an existence consecrated entirely to scientific research and asked me to share that life.”  And what a life it was! The two of them were rarely apart and shared a fascination with her newly-discovered element – radium. “These gleamings [samples of radium chloride] which seemed suspended in darkness, stirred us with new emotion and enchantment…The glowing tubes looked like faint, fairy lights.” Yes, fairy lights which will kill you. And a lot of other people! Pierre dies young in a carriage accident. Marie has affairs with other scientists and becomes involved in a sex scandal that threatens to destroy her reputation, but then accomplishes such outstanding things during World War I that she redeems herself, winning another Nobel Prize before her death in 1935 from… radium poisoning. Radioactivity made Marie Curie immortal and then it killed her. The book is a work of art and story. I continue to pore over it, watching a myriad of connections emanate from Marie Curie to reverberate throughout the 20th and 21st centuries. “Their luminosity disappears after some time, but the capacity of becoming luminous afresh through heat is restored to them by the action of a spark, and also by the action of radium.” --Marie Curie
580	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The vivid chemically composed, cyanotype printed illustrations perfectly set the mood and tone to tell Marie Curie’s story in Laura Redniss’s Radioactive. Beginning the narrative is a preface “with apologies to Marie Curie, who said ‘There is no connection between my scientific work and the facts of private life (Redniss, 6).”’ Though later the reader will discover the context of this quote is in regards to a high profile sex scandal Marie Curie was involved in, the question remains: Would Curie have wanted this? Does Redniss cross a line by going against Curie’s wishes to tell her story in a way that centers upon the crossing of Marie’s science with her personal life? I don’t have an answer, though maybe Marie Curie would have with those weird ghost seances her and Pierre involved themselves in. However, I do believe this novel is on a similar level to that of Art Spiegelman’s Maus. That story followed Spiegelman’s father, Vladek, through his survival of The Holocaust while interweaving the personal relationship of the two into a highly creative and symbolic graphic novel. And for all these elements, the story was highly effective. Perhaps more so than it would have been if it were merely written down. What better way to represent the story of the Curies than by producing it with a form of chemical science of its own: cyanotype printing? Thus, while it may offend the sensible wishes of its subject, I feel like this new lens on Curie’s life was not only poignant, but highly successful. In creating a cross referencing narrative that spans from Curie’s relationships forged out of brilliant scientific partnerships that emboldens her work, to the heartbreak and scandal she endured all while becoming the first to win two Nobel prizes for her work in radioactivity, the extent of her accomplishments are fully realized. The addition of snippets from the future that highlight the importance and ramifications her work would go on to have also add to a complex narrative of complex human beings. In my seventh grade science class, I first heard of Marie Curie. She was a poster among a wall of other posters of male scientists. I felt far removed when hearing about her, as the science didn’t mean much to me. However, this novel serves to better humanize its subjects to connect with audiences that may not otherwise have paid much attention. Despite the fact that the book is formatted in a creative new approach to Curie through stylistic illustration, I find this doesn’t mean the novel is anyway lesser. It simply offers a wider range of audience to learn about Marie Curie. For a younger audience, for those whose brains lean more artistically than scientifically, for those who are drawn in by the stories of human love and tragedy rather than humans loving beakers and green glowy things, Redniss has offered Marie Curie a new perspective and a new set of ears interested in keeping her story alive.
581	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Wow. Just Wow. This book is like none that I have read. It is hard to describe because it is many things, but not exactly like any particular type of book. It resembles a graphic novel. It resembles an art book. It resembles a biography. It resembles a history of radioactivity.  The story is framed by a biography of Marie Curie, the narrative includes her love story with her husband husband Pierre and the lover she took as a widow, Paul Langevin. It also describes her scientific partnership with both men which led to Madam Curie winning two Nobel Prizes in Physics (The discovery of radioactivity) and Chemistry (The discovery of the elements Polonium and Radium). The discovery of radium is one of the most tenacious and persistent stories in science. Marie and Pierre took 5 tons of pitchblende ore and separated a few specs of radium chloride over a four year process of back breaking chemical separation and purification. The final steps required were primarily through multiple recrystallizations with each step slowly producing a slightly more pure product. All of these was done in an inadequate abandoned shed formally used for human dissection in the med school, using crude tools like iron kettles and heavy rods to stir the mixtures.  The continuation of the scientific work ws carried out by the Curie's daughter and son and law, Irène and Frédéric Joliot-Curie. This second generation's scientific work led to another Nobel Prize in Chemistry (Discovery of synthetic radioactive elements). Like Nobel's invention of dynamite before him Frédéric Joliot-Curie wished his work to be carried only for the good of man, but his work provided the key step that lead to the creation of nuclear weapons  Interspersed in the main story are historical accounts on radioactivity such as the Hiroshima bombing, the sad fate of women who painted luminous watch dials with radium paint, atomic bomb testing, development of nuclear power, radioactivity in medicine, Three Mile Island, and the Chernobyl disaster.  Every page that is not a photographer is a work of art created by the author inspired by the words on the page. She used a technique called cyanotype printing whereby she applied a solution to paper and masked it with the negative of her desired drawing. Exposure to sunlight creates the pigment Prussian Blue. A water rinse removes the solution from the masked areas. She indicates this process is relative because the final result is similar to the glowing described by Marie Curie of radium, it involves photography which was key in the discovery of X-rays and radioactivity, and Prussian Blue itself is used to treat radioactive poisoning.  It is a short read, but a deep work of both art and literature.
582	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"There is so much to this book. I don't know if I'll be able to condense it to one small review, but I'll try.  I was assigned this book in my capstone nonfiction literature class in college. To be honest, I didn't read much in college (there was too many readings assigned and I couldn't keep up!), so I skimmed this book, even though it's set up as a picture book. Even though I BS-ed my way through class discussion (which I always did--I graduated college with a B.A. in BS-ing), I was super impressed with the book.  First, the artistic genius of it. The book apparently glows in the dark (according to my professor), which is AWESOME and so fitting since it's about Curie and radium. The art itself has chemical properties (Redniss explains this briefly in a note at the end of the book) and there are many artistic renderings of chemical layouts and all that science-y stuff. The colors are super cool and Redniss definitely uses it as much as she can. (One specific example is the word ""colorful"": it's the only word printed in color on the page and it sticks out so well.) Redniss also specifically created the font for the book and named it after a person mentioned.  Second, the flow is amazing. Normally I get frustrated by choppy, back-and-forth storylines, but it absolutely works in this book. Redniss focuses on Marie Curie and her life/findings, but also throws in details and personal stories about the aftereffects and results of Curie's discoveries.  Third, the content makes me feel smart. I'm not a science-y person. I took basic chemistry twice in college and barely passed the second time. Though there's a lot of science in this book, much of which I don't understand, I feel like I understand it by the way Redniss introduces it. She really only includes the details that are important, but they still add so much valuable information.  I really enjoy this book. I haven't read nonfiction in a while, but this is a good book to get reintroduced to the genre. If you aren't a big nonfiction reader, this should be a top choice! It's beautifully done and so well-researched. I'm in awe of how much work was put into it."
583	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Radioactive: Marie and Pierre Curie, A Tale of Love and Fallout is a biographical graphic novel written and illustrated by Lauren Redniss, and traces the life of two scientific giants Marie and Pierre Curie.  Marie Skłodowska Curie was a Polish and naturalized-French physicist and chemist who conducted pioneering research on radioactivity. She was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, is the first person and the only woman to win the Nobel Prize twice, and is the only person to win the Nobel Prize in two different scientific fields. Pierre Curie was a French physicist, a pioneer in crystallography, magnetism, piezoelectricity, and radioactivity. In 1903, he received the Nobel Prize in Physics with his wife, and Henri Becquerel.  As the narrative of Pierre and Marie Curie progresses chronologically through the nine chapters of the graphic novel, Redniss mirrors the characters’ personal and professional lives with other seemingly random events – that would happened thanks to their discovery.  One underlying theme of the graphic novel is the remarkable partnership of individuals who, working together, discover something new. At the turn of the century, an amazing confluence of scientific discoveries and ideas created an atmosphere where information was shared among scientists. The many partnerships clearly show the benefit of sharing ideas and how those ideas spread with a life of their own throughout the scientific community.  Radioactive: Marie and Pierre Curie, A Tale of Love and Fallout is written and constructed rather well. Redniss has written a very modern portrait of this celebrated couple that is a treat to read. From the custom type created by the author to the layout of the sparse text to the illustrations, Redniss presents a biography that captures not only the linear progression of the lives of these scientific giants, but connects their work to its effects in the world.  All in all, Radioactive: Marie and Pierre Curie, A Tale of Love and Fallout is a wonderful biographical graphic novel about a truly extraordinary couple in Marie and Pierre Curie.
584	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Radioactive: Marie and Pierre Curie, A Tale of Love and Fallout (2010) is a biographical graphic novel written and illustrated by Lauren Redniss. I found this book through GoodReads, additionally this book was a 2011 National Book Award Finalist for Nonfiction. The illustrations throughout the graphic novel are primarily cyanotype prints mixed with scientific graphics, maps, and other organizational and support tools that aid the story. I chose to read the ebook version of this novel, aside from being able to zoom in to be better able to read and see different pieces of the story, there was nothing fantastic about this version.  This graphic novel ultimately tells two stories: one of the Curie family and one of radioactive materials. Spanning 1859 to 2010 and set across the world, this story primarily chronicles the life of Marie Curie, her husband, her family, her work with Radium & Polonium, and her death due to radiation exposure in 1934. Marie is depicted honestly, nothing is hidden about the life she led which was certainly not perfect. Both Marie’s triumphs (winning two Nobel Prizes, serving in the war) and her losses are on display (losing a child, being widowed). Branching off of Marie’s biography are short informational segues across time and space relating to radioactivity: Hiroshima, Chernobyl, and Nuclear Reactors. Marie’s story forms the base of a long history of scientific inquiry and progress which helped to cement her place in world history. Everything ties back to the work Marie gave her life to even in the end, the life her daughter gave her life to as well.  This is a well researched biographical piece that would be a great tool to use in an AP Chemistry course to discuss the history and implications of radioactive research. This novel is fairly technical, so I would recommend it for upper high school students and above simply because it is very dense and detailed in regards to the science.  Even though you know how it ends for Marie, I was dreading it her voice is so clear and hopeful throughout. Such a great graphic novel!
586	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	My knowledge of Marie Curie was minimal. My desire to learn more about her was even less. But that is the joy of Quest Scouts: challenges that take me out of my comfort zone.  This book was not available from my local library so I requested an inner-library loan. It arrived within a week. Interestingly, the book originated from the middle school I attended. It seems like at some point it transferred from that school to the regional high school I did not attend, but would have had I gone to the public school.  I read digitally these days, so I wasn't certain I would even be able to read this when it came in. I did. It is beautifully presented. Lauren Redniss writes well as well as illustrates wonderfully. This is a well-designed book. My only complaint is that some of the color choices rendered the text difficult to read on some pages for these older eyes.  Marie Curie led an interesting life. She fell for her colleagues. Smart and lovable (apparently), she lived life to the fullest. She twice won the Nobel Prize. Her husband was killed in a freak carriage accident. She took a lover, a colleague who was married. Then she was exposed by his wife on the brink of the second Nobel Prize. She was asked not to attend the ceremony, advice for which she ignored. She was a contemporary of Einstein, although his senior. He even counseled her on the scandal of her affair. Ha!  I enjoyed how Redniss tied Curie's work to more modern advances that readers may be familiar with. Truly, Curie's work spawned the nuclear arms race that we still contend with today. And her passion for radioactivity, which she discovered, is what killed her. Unrelenting, her children followed her into the sciences advancing her work.  I truly enjoyed this read. I thank Quest Scouts for presenting this to me for I would have never cracked open this book otherwise.
587	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Radioactive tells the love story between Marie Curie and her husband Pierre. It’s also about their love for radium, one of the two radioactive properties of uranium that they discovered as part of their scientific work.  Marie and Pierre’s collaboration was cut short in 1906 when Pierre was killed by a horse-drawn carriage. Marie continued his work, taking over his professorship at the Sorbonne. She was the first female professor in the 600+ year history of the school.  A few years later, she began an affair with Pierre’s former assistant, Paul. He was a married man, and the resulting scandal rocked Paris. Marie was awarded her second Nobel Prize during this time, and members of the Nobel committee, worried about the gossip, wrote to Marie to suggest she not attend the ceremony. She informed them that her scientific achievements had nothing to do with her personal life and attended the ceremony anyway.  This is a graphic novel hybrid that is closer to an art project. The artwork is beautiful, full page illustrations in glowing yellows and greens and blues. She created a font just for this book, and the cover glows in the dark.  Redniss also incorporates original sources, such as the letters Marie wrote to Pierre and Paul, as well as interviews and information about the Manhattan Project, Hiroshima, and Chernobyl, and underground testing in Nevada.  If you’re not already well-versed in the life of Marie Curie and the history of radioactivity, this has just enough information to spark interest in learning more. This book would be an excellent starting point for readers wanting to learn more about radium, the history of nuclear testings and disasters. For the art fans, it’s also a great mix of art and science. 
588	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"DR. JONAS FRISEN: “In an old person, the heart muscle cells will be a mosaic: some that have been with that person from birth, and there will be new cells that have replaced others that were lost.”A mosaic is also the metaphor cognitive scientist Douglas Hoftstadter turns to in thinking about love and the brain. In his book I am a Strange Love, Hoftstadter says that when you love someone and know them intimately, you begin to hold a mosaic portrait of that person inside your heart. The better you know the person, the more finely-grained the mosaic portrait will be. Hoftstadter wonders if, following his wife’s death, the deep empathy between them allowed him to think with a grainy version of her brain inside his own. DOUGLAS HOFSTADTER: ""Over our many years together, through thousands of hours of casual and intimate conversations, I had imported lower-resolution copies of the many experiences central to her identify... Some of her memories were so vivid that they had become my own.”Indeed, even the word ‘remember’: Hofstadter said in a telephone interview, “is not strong enough. I feel like I was working extremely hard to carry out her desires, in some senses, be her.” The book goes on, “the key question is, no matter how much you absorb of another person, can you have absorbed so much of them that when that primary brain perishes, you can feel that that person did not totally perish from the earth…because they live on in a ‘second neural home’?… In the wake of a human being's death, what survives is a set of afterglows, some brighter and some dimmer, in the collective brains of those who were dearest to them.... Though the primary brain has been eclipsed, there is, in those who remain...a collective corona that still glows.” (180)"
590	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	An exceptional book that serves as the inspiration to the new film about Marie Curie of the same name. Some have described this as a 'graphic novel' and that is incorrect. This doesn't indulge in any form of sequential art or storytelling; this is an illustrated book and a wonderfully illustrated book to boot. It tells a highly truncated version of Marie's life, especially her love for Pierre, and the illustrations work with the text and complement it brilliantly. It also serves as a potted history of the power of radioactivity and moves around in time telling the tales of Hiroshima, Chernobyl and Three Mile Island amongst others. It is a conceit that the film also uses that some have discarded as mere gimmickry, but I would argue it grounds Curie's influence and her work in the now rather than burying it in history and, likewise, it questions what she achieved (or rather how people have used what she discovered) rather than merely laying praise at her feet. Lovely to look at, easy to read with clear, simple and sparse prose, all bound together in an ages-spanning story, this is a great addition to any bookcase.
591	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This short and fascinating little book uses a non-linear expository technique to juxtapose the story of Pierre and Marie Curie with various anecdotes about the application of radiation to technology, from power plants to nuclear weapons, in the years since then. Even the 2006 Polonium poisoning of Russian dissident Alexander Litvenenko appears, right next to a case in the 1920s, in which women factory workers sued US Radium after it was discovered they were poisoning themselves on the line. Back to Marie Curie — it was a surprise to me that she was not only a most incredible researcher, an exacting and ingenious mind, but also lived long to 66, with many children and lovers even after Pierre, a fairly long time considering that she was rather systematically poisoning herself with radiation from several types of elements. The strangest and perhaps most fascinating thing is that for three generations of Curies since then, nuclear physics has been the family trade. Is it possible that in some true sense Marie and Pierre live on in the genetic and epigenetic features of their descendants? If so, it is altogether an inspiring and heartwarming chapter of human history. 
592	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I had this book for many years now but never got around to it until the movie came out. I so wanted to see the movie but had to read the book first so I pushed it to the top of the reading list and finished it very quickly. The book was a style of graphic novel and the fonts were of 18th/19th century manuscript style so made it abit difficult to read. However, that gave more time to study and admire the artwork. The book weaves the love story of Marie and Pierre with the far-reaching repercussions of their work: the atomic bomb, medicine, space exploration. She was way ahead of her husband in an era where women were not considered worthy of being prized ntellectuals in society. That's why he husband got credit for discoveries she soley created.  The book is a treasure though, very well written and beautifully illustrated. It makes a great gift for anyone interested or unaware of this historic figure and the sciences.  By th way - the movie was also good but left out many details. Movie was directed by Marjane Satrapi (author of Persepolis) and stars Rosamund Pike (the name itself attracts me to watch all her films) and Sam Riley. 
593	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book presents a very abbreviated overview of the discovery of radioactive elements and their subsequent use and misuse. The presentation is also accompanied by artwork that appears to be abstract modernistic in style. The art really added very little to the story in my opinion and took up a lot of space that could have been used to make the narrative more than just a brief history of radioactivity. Also, the title implies that the Curies will be the central topic but their role in the story is just one of numerous examples of the history of radioactivity. The story never really coheres but rather jumps from one example to another and the examples do not follow a timeline. Occasionally, like with the artwork, one wonders why a particular example was used (e.g. why dedicate two pages to listing Polish writers, politicians, actors, scientists, artists, etc?). Perhaps the author is more interested in producing a book for its artistic merits rather than for its informational content. If so, I am not a good judge of that. For those looking for information, there are some interesting examples but most are superficially presented more or less as vignettes.
594	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A charming, ethereal mixture of art and science and passion. I enjoyed reading (and savoring) this visual (literally glowing) tale of Marie and Pierre. Much of the first part of the book is told in their own words, and it's a pleasure to get to know their voices. Later parts of the narrative are interwoven with jumps forward into the future, capturing some of the myriad inventions, advances, and tragedies that the Curies enabled. The book is already rich with metaphor, and yet I couldn't help envisioning one not explicitly stated: that Marie and Pierre themselves had a radioactive effect on history, not only in their discoveries and advances but also in their influence on others and the trail of innovation they inspired in their children and grandchildren. They suffered for their work, but they couldn't let it go - half-life decay, indeed! Their ideas continue to knock into the heads of new scientists and to trigger new innovations in turn. An enjoyable and thought-provoking read!
595	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I love the format of this book! The mixture of text and art along with history and commentary is really compelling.  The ratings are all over the place for this book for a good reason. One's opinion of it depends on whether one likes the mixture of art and text and whether one likes how the nonlinear nature of the text. The history of Marie Skłodowska Curie, Pierre Curie, family, and friends is linear. However, the author inserts relevant historical commentary throughout the story which is what many people object to.  As of this review date we assign this book to all of our General Chemistry I students as required reading and so far the feedback has been very positive. Students tend to like the format and while some don't like the nonlinear text, they appreciate the information.  I don't recommend the Kindle version, however. Some people bought it and said it was very hard to read. I suggest the hardback version and make it a coffee table book to encourage visitors to flip through it,
596	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I picked this up thinking it would be giving me a child's version of Marie and Pierre Curie. It was too advanced for that, more like middle age to junior high. I came to understand more of their life and discovery. But this book had a lot of words, details - definitely too much for younger child plus the pictures were more interpretive although her reason for the type of art was pretty cool. I did like that often exact quotes were taking from Marie and Pierre's journals. There was also some intermix of events and letters from other actual events because of their work. I have to admit I fell asleep reading this a couple of times, which was okay because I was reading it for that purpose. But I actually woke up from a nightmare of sorts - dreaming about my home being bombed with a nuclear bomb and everything and everyone becoming radioactive and it was horrifying to worry about my family like that. So if you are a bit sensitive to sad events be warned because this is a true story.
597	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a unique book. However, I have to limit my stars. It was hard to follow - I would have appreciated a cue -change of font, frame, text alert about the historical side notes, maybe even a transitional paragraph telling us how the event related back to Marie Curie. The historical notes WERE interesting, but felt like they were just dropped in randomly. It felt very much like a high school student's research project that they didn't really spend time organizing. In terms of the visual aspect, it was hard on my eyes. Too many pages lacked enough contrast between the text and the background colors. The font was hard to read. At the end, the author/artist reveals that she had designed the font. I wish that authors and publishers would remember to make books accessible to all. (I am not a low vision reader - I think that if it was hard on my eyes, a person with reduced vision would really struggle with this.
598	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This novel is a collage of graphics, documents, pictures and text to tell the story of Marie and Pierre Curie, their discovery of radioactive material, and the consequences of their work. Personal accounts from journals and letters of Marie and Pierre were often reproduced as part of the story, I found it to be somewhat fragmented, as their story would be interspersed with counterpoint stories of people or events which were a result of their work, but not necessarily in the same timeframe. An interesting way to introduce collateral information, but sometimes seeming unrelated until one read further. Reading this novel was often a challenge: the typeface colour often blended into the background, so actually reading it was difficult. Redniss’ graphic technique does not appeal to me: bordering on abstract but also too simplistic. Would I recommend this novel to a friend? If someone is intensely interested in the lives of famous scientists, this read offers different perspective.
599	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Furthering my inquiry into chemistry / radioactivity etc. I finally read Radioactive as a follow up text to ""Marie Curie and her daughters"" the latter is much more accessible in art and text to middle schoolers than Radioactive, which I think is written for a more mature audience. The author / illustrator made some very conscious decisions on the design and typography and explained this at the end, however many times I think those choices got in the way of legibility and readability which is a pity. In particular the type-face was on the small and light side making it difficult to read particularly on some of the backgrounds where the contrast was not sufficient.  The story in itself is fascinating - underlying the idea the power of collaboration and unrelenting passion in the pursuit of knowledge. I also really liked how the author weaved in historical information both related to the time in which Marie & Pierre were working and the impact of their work up to the present day."
600	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	To see, to feel, to smell, to hear, to taste, these are the only invisible facts—but which we acknowledge are real—the sensations of horror that kills, of grief that prostrates, joy that uplifts, and faith that cures—what if these things can be registered and seen apart from the body, are they not then material things? And may they not indicate that other invisible materials exist—which are in reality material if we had the human capacity for observing them?... Perhaps Radium and its sister elements may one day help us here. We may not believe, but we do not know that we should not believe!  An eerie, moving, artful study of one of history's most intriguing figures. There is much to be gleaned from this book. I learned so much about science, love, France, humanity. It is a life-changing work of art; the artist used embellished canotype to create images in a method evocative of x-rays. I did not put it down until I read it all.
601	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is a beautifully illustrated summary of Marie and Pierre Currie's lives and a summary of the use and effects of radiation. While I have read or viewed other material that gives more information and details, the prose is very elegant and covers much information.  The book is meant to be experienced by viewing the illustrations while reading the text, however, the text is difficult to read in parts. It is artistic and sometimes coordinated with the colors on the page. Also, some pages are very text-heavy, since the book is larger than a regular novel, the text covers a larger width than a normal book the paragraphs can be quite long. I was very happy to discover the audiobook on Hoopla and listened to the book, stopping to view the pictures periodically. To fully experience the book, if you have the time, I would recommend, reading along to the audio book while viewing the illustrations.  
602	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"""With apologies to Marie Curie, who said, 'There is no connection between my scientific work and the facts of private life.'"" (from the epigraph).  It's hard to know where to start in explaining this book. But you should read it. It's history, art, biography, nature, mysticism and magic woven together. It's the story of the Curies, their lives, their relationship, their discoveries and careers (and those of their offspring). However, all of that is intermixed with snippets about radiation and all the healing and destructive technology that has come from its discovery. Personal stories from people who experienced the atomic bomb, radiation treatment, Chernobyl, etc... Every detail, down to the cyanotype artwork and font have symbolism related to the stories. It was a truly immersive experience and it expanded my understanding of important historical figures but also of the overlap of science and magic."
603	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"This will be our university's common read for next year, but in an online version. I definitely liked having a hard copy better than the online version. And yet . . . . I found myself not particulary engaged by it. Perhaps it's because, besides her marriages, I knew generally about Marie Curie and the other incidents related by the author. For those who don't, perhaps the information and linkages are useful. I didn't, however, find myself particularly sympathetic to any of the individuals portrayed here and I'm not sure why not. I also found it somewhat strange that the female body became such a focus. In scenes that reflect lovers, it is only the female body that is so ""exposed."" I imagine that could be a conversation about why we expose bodies, especially given the kind of exposures that ultimately kill many noted here. And yet . . . ."
604	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Once I started, I didn’t put it down. There are some difficult science parts, but the author does an interesting job at weaving an emotional component through out. It’s illustrated, which was an alluring surprise for an adult novel.  Page 7: There are kinds of magics. One kind is created by man, wherein he produces things which are magical or mysterious to everyone but himself because to him they are simple results due to natural causes which are manipulated by him. Then there are nature’s magics— called magics because no man understands them. As soon as their causes are known to man they are no longer mysteries, no longer magics. They are natural results of material causes. Radium is one of these— nature’s magic, because as yet no one understands it’s being, or causes of being, not it’s results of being. Loïe Fuller, 1911
605	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"GORGEOUS colors and art. Learned a lot! (Like the Nobel PEACE Prize is named after the guy who invented dynamite???)  Really enjoyed reading Marie's writings (""My head is so full of plans that it seems aflame."") And her thoughts on love and grief were heart-achingly beautiful. This quote also stuck with me, from scientist Douglas Hofstadter: ""In the wake of a human being's death, what survives is a set of afterglows, some brighter and some dimmer, in the collective brains of those who were dearest to them...Though the primary brain has been eclipsed, there is, in those who remain...a collective corona that still glows.""  I really liked how the author juxtaposed the Curies' findings with what would result from them—the good and the devastating. Just wish some of the discussions were dumbed down a little more for me :D  Update: The book GLOWS in the DARK?!?!??!!"
606	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	In the wake of a human being's death, what survives is a set of afterglows, some brighter and some dimmer, in the collective brains of those who were dearest to them...Though the primary brain has been eclipsed, there is, in those who remain...a collective corona that still glows.  This book is absolutely gorgeous! The ethereal art & illustrations create such an atmosphere to the experience of reading. It's a fairly perfunctory biography of the lives and careers of Marie & Pierre Curie, interwoven with the effects of their research on science and the scope of human history - both for good and ill, and there's certainly been a lot of ill brought about by humankind through the use of radium. Multiple sections made me cry, particularly the quote above, originally by Douglas Hofstadter. Most of my love for this work does come from the art of it - it even glows in the dark!
607	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A beautiful graphic novel biography of Marie Skladowska Curie. The story shifts from vignettes of the lives and of the Curies to events and consequences of the discovery of radioactive elements (Chernobyl Explosion, Three Mile Island Meltdown, Bombing of Hiroshima, and more). The book shares the triumphs and heartaches of her life, and doesn't gloss over difficult subjects (affairs, effects of radiation exposure). In addition, the book provides little treasures: a two-page homage to famous Poles, a compendium of radiation in pop-culture , and unique art with an explanation of how it was created. I would recommend this book for teens and adults to learn more about Marie, the Curies, and the scientific and cultural connections to her work.
608	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"I saw the movie based on the book (on Amazon Prime) first. It stars Rosamund Pike, who I think was great in the movies ""Hostiles"" and ""A private war."" The book was a surprise in many ways. First, it is oversize. Second, it uses cyanotype printing which allows for text to be intermingled around and sometimes over drawn pictures. Photographs, charts, maps, and letters are also incorporated onto the pages. As in the film, the story of Marie and Pierre, and Marie post-Pierre, is the center stage of the work. But interspersed in the text, and also in the film, are vignettes of historical events subsequent to the discovery of radium & polonium, such as the bombing of Hiroshima, nuclear bomb tests in Nevada, and cancer treatment. Highly entertaining and innovative. Recommended. "
609	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The lives of Pierre and Marie Curie serve as a starting point for this joint biography which also examines the impact of their scientific research on the world. The generous use of quotes from the works of the subjects, and interviews with scientists, researchers and people affected by their discoveries, both adversely and beneficially, along with copious illustrations make this an unusual book which is very different from standard biographies since it only provides a short overview of the Curies lives and work, and its impact on the sciences. The book will not satisfy someone looking for a detailed biography of the Curies or an extensive examination of their work and its impact on the earth. 
610	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Marie Curie was one of my childhood heros, so I was fascinated to read this book. The author tells the story of the Curies with tenderness, using their own words from quotes and letters. As the title indicates, Redniss also traces the discovery of radium and polonium, including its strange applications as ow in the dark paint, topical treatments, and medicinally. She also intersperses the stories of its destructive powers, both infamous events such as the bombing ofHiroshima, the nuclear reactor failures of Three Mile Island and Chernobyl (Pripyat), as well as it's impact on the health of the Curies. Highly recommend!
611	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	From the first time as an upper elementary school student that I picked up a massive biography of Marie Curie that my dad owned, I have had a soft spot for reading anything and everything I can find about this woman. This book intrigued me and kept me reading. However, I do not think that I can recommend it. I loved the format. I think the compilation of creative structure, poetic in nature, and the images drawn by the author itself paints a fascinating picture. Yet, the inclusion, without warning of topic change, of other information related to radioactivity felt jarring and disconnected to the larger story being told. Good try but ... not quite there.
612	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book had some logical mishaps with mentioning radium and then mentioning an atomic bomb or Chernobyl. Yes, radiation are involved with those two things but an unknowing reader could link radium to atomic bombs, and there lies the blame on the Curies for destruction. I did enjoy the art and the way that the book was written in a love-story fashion for me to catch a glimpse at the life of Pierre and Marie as a married team of scientists. I enjoyed having a bit of a change of perspective from “hard scientists” to “passionate scientists” in terms of how women scientists were viewed back in their day. Pierre seemed to be a huge advocate for women in science and I thoroughly enjoyed that. 
613	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is gorgeous. The art is vivid, creative, unique and emotionally powerful. And beyond being beautiful to look at it, it's also a beautifully written biography of Marie and Pierre Curie. And not only is a really touching look at their lives and their work, but it is interspersed with multiple perspectives helping put their legacy in context. There are cancer survivors and those who found ways to use this technology for good and then there are victims of the Hiroshima bombings and Chernobyl meltdowns. It's truly a gorgeous book from top to bottom written by someone who clearly knows the power of graphic novels as a medium and shows that they are works of art. 
614	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was fascinating. I haven't read a biography in a long time and this one seemed appropriate given that I'd seen Oppenheimer (the movie) the week before. It's a biography (a love story, actually), but it's also more than that as it provides additional scientific and cultural history related to radium. The research is impressive and extensive.  The book is also visually fascinating -- the artwork and text features, the font and the arrangement of text on the page; it's all meaningful, and I can't remember having read anything like it. A beautiful blend of art, science, history, and literature. 
615	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Super informative and beautifully designed. My only complaints go hand in hand: 1. Some of the pages could have used margins as there was a lot of text to read and 2. Though it was all historical information, on some of these text-rich pages, it felt like some of the information could've been cut down and delivered in a more traditional graphic novel text bubble style. Overall I enjoyed learning about Curie and her work. I also liked the connection to other radioactive events around the world but also felt like their pages could have been highlighted better to show that we were stepping away from Curie's story for a minute.
616	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Kind of wish I had the physical copy of this book. We read it for chemistry in homeschool. I messed up because I checked out a different book with the exact same name. I heard this book has beautiful illustrations and I'm a bit disappointed I didn't see the physical book for myself. We finished, and I'm not planning on rereading this, so I guess I won't know for myself. It was a good glimpse into the life of Marie Curie and what she dealt with as a turn-of-the-20th-century woman in science. I was delighted to learn that her children and grandchildren were also involved heavily in science and that her daughter also won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
617	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What an incredible book. Its illustrations are moody and vibrant and sexy and compelling. Its deft juxtaposition of both the beauty and wonder of scientific exploration against the destruction caused by the long-term 'fallout' of those experiments is nuanced and thoughtful. And all of that is set against a very tender presentation of the human beings behind the discoveries, and their messy, complex lives. Plus so much of it comes directly from primary sources, which offers such a particular and precise peek into the world it depicts. This is the kind of book I want more of.
618	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"""Radioactive"" is a love story about Pierre Curie and Marya Sklodowska. They loved science and each other. We get a brief background about each of them and the story quickly leads to their discovery of radium, the health issues both endured from handling it, as well as aside stories of how it has effected our planet and its life.  An interesting read accompanied by artwork created by the author. I awakened during the night and noticed a glow on my nightstand. Suddenly I realized that the cover of this book was glowing ... eerily glowing."
619	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"The font and images used in this book were purposefully designed to capture radium's ""spontaneous luminosity"" and the Curies' fascination with physics and spiritualism. Sparse lines of text suddenly expand into dense passages describing the element's importance to historical events like Hiroshima and Chernobyl and the future. The words flow around art that alternately brightens or darkens, creating pages that are ghostly, mysterious, and erotic. Together they form a biography of outer-worldly proportions."
620	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I knew very little about Marie Curie prior to reading this book. This book was very informative. I like that the pictures were more abstract than the typical graphic memoir. I think that it added an element to the story telling that was fun. I also like that the story was not simply a biography but also educational about radium, polonium, and nuclear physics in general. I don't think that this book is for everyone. However, I think if you have an interest in the topic or you want to know more about an interesting human, you should defintely read this book.
621	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A fascinating and truly unique history of Marie and Pierre Curie’s life and work. Redness succinctly but deftly weaves Marie Curie’s work, romances, and legacy together with stories of her own research in radium, the work of her scientific contemporaries, and the many advancements her work spurred, the atom bomb—with it many historical and cultural impacts— chief among these. Each page is vibrantly illustrated with cyanotype prints and a riot of color and line. Take your time enjoying this almost postmodern history of one of the most significant scientists of our time. 
622	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Biography of Marie Curie alongside arty illustrations and some of the history of radiation. I was interested to learn of her close relationship with her husband and her lover, and also that she slept with radium near her pillow while it was touted as a cure-all and that she helped make x-ray machines during a war. The illustrations were done using ink that reacts to the uv radiation, and they really gave the writing an ethereal, alien feel. I'm not sure how much the atomic bomb segments contributed to the story but it was interesting. 
623	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is 2018-2019 Common Reading Program book for University Of Cincinnati. I tried to find it at the library as an eBook and then tried to buy on Amazon as an eBook. It is only available as printed book and is outstanding in use of illustrations and graphical us of print. Even the typeface was created by the author. I really enjoyed it and learned about the lives of Mdme Currie and Pierre Curie and their lives and much about their discoveries. I seldom read a book so quickly but this is very absorbing. 
624	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Artistic, provocative, historic and informative. Redniss uses incredible visual imagery to amplify the impact of radiation, the lives of the scientific developers, with intrigue and surprise. At the heart is a loving homage to Marie Curie, glowing in Prussian blue cynanotypes—much like the luminosity of radium. This book is unlike any I have read—a visual feast amplifying an intriguing story of science and scientists. Love the invented typeface and the color transitions from orange glow, to fairy light blue, to black and white.
625	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The art is interesting, done using techniques that mimic radiation that has a dreamy and colorful result. The Curies are so interesting and important and leave a legacy far beyond their work (children and grandchildren have also become scientists). The idea that someone's life work can ultimately kill them is fascinating and the graphic novel does a good job at not just the biographical elements but providing lots of context, like factory girls who died from putting radioactive paintbrushes in their mouth or the contributions of famous Poles. 
626	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Redness's drawing are often spooky but that is fitting, and I liked them more the more I sat with them. The text is its own collage, an element in the construction of the work with the art and the novel typeface. She has an understated approach and a great sense of timing as she juxtaposes the scientific discovery, the personal history and romance, and the modern consequences, to make points without any didactic statements and without any melodrama (very appropriate to Marie Curie's own approach to her life story). If you have any philosopher-scientists in your circle, this is a great gift.
627	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	literally 3~ weeks ago i had this feeling while thinking abt someone: wow i love this person so much and the fact that i can't actually live and breathe in their perspective weirdly pains me—unattainable closeness. did not expect ending of this book to hit a passing thought like that. also thinking abt the idea that the memories u have of a person form a little mosaic in your head and as u share a thousand more casual + intimate convos/memories the mosaic becomes more finely grained into some larger impression of ur relationship! lovely
628	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A beautifully illustrated offering from Lauren Redniss here. Man, can that girl draw!  I found this a simple yet enjoyable read, a streamlined version of how Marie and Pierre Curie met, married and worked together and their rather tragic end.  The illustrations are enlightening, funky, modern and yet sensitively tell the story pictorially.  I enjoyed this as an afternoon read; perhaps not one I'd re-read but I'm going pass this one on so that other people can enjoy the amazing illustrative talent of Lauren.
629	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Redniss has done a great job of incorporating facts related to the Curies and their studies and supplementing their story with the testimony of others. It made for an interesting read, though I would have liked to have learned more about them personally. This focused almost exclusively on their work with little tidbits of events in their lives thrown in to add context to their discoveries at the time. The artwork was amazing, and I can't wait to see how Marjane Satrapi adapts this into her next movie!
630	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I really enjoyed this book! My attention never wandered while I was reading this book. The author wrote about Marie Curie and her life in a very interesting way. The author also showed examples of how we are still using Marie and Pierre's work today. As for the illustrations: I appreciated the effort that went into creating the artwork. I didn't feel that the illustrations always matched up well with the written words.
631	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Good book about two women that didn't get the credit they were deserved. As interesting as their stories are what really stood out to me was the wanton carelessness that these early pioneers handled all things radioactive. I had to cringe at some of the practices of the day before people realized how dangerous radioactive material is. Also it was eye opening to see how cut throat / dog eat dog the world of physics was and as I understand it, still is. 
632	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	My goodness, but I don't know why the library classified this as history. That effectively buried a book that should have seen more light of day. It is most definitely an art book and probably a science book and probably philosophy and most likely a book to enjoy and ruminate. Redniss is a great storyteller. Her choice of facts, quotes, and visuals brought Marie Curie's life and our love for atomic destruction to the fore. 
633	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Follows the blurb. I didn’t understand the art style until I read about how it was created in the back. Then it made so much sense and I went back to look at the details and appreciate the work. As for the story, I learned a lot about Marie Curie. So much has happened in the world as the result of her work. It’s amazing. She is often presented as a token female scientist but really she was the leading edge in science throughout her career.
634	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	While one could read this book much faster than I did, it would be missing so many of the fantastic details, not only of Madame Curie, but of her family and the political environment and scientific community of that recent history. I also didn’t love the looks of the artwork, but I still found each one mesmerizing and worthy of in depth examination. Not everyone will appreciate this book, but I am so grateful it crossed my path. 
635	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book wasn’t my favorite. It was kind of hard to follow because the story would jump back in forth from the Curie’s story to a different historical event. Also, the images weren’t for me. They were not well drawn in my opinion, however I did appreciate the coloring of the book. I did learn some new things about the Curies. I didn’t know that they had children, so that was interesting to read about. If you are into abstract art, I would recommend this book, otherwise I would go for something else.
636	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"When I thumbed through this book club selection, I was hesitant I was walking into some drug fueled ramblings of a crazy author. However I gave the book a chance and it really blew me away. The author is an artist, literally she drew/designed/colored all of the illustrations using a chemical practice that honored the general glow theme of the book. As for the literary content- this book takes a pretty whimsical, non linear path. I'd just reiterate again and again to give it a chance- it surprised and delighted me. It's provocative, informative, and a thoroughly enjoyable read that ties in both science and romantic intrigue.  ""In the wake of a human being's death, what survives is a set of afterglows, some brighter and some dimmer, in the collective brains fo those who were dearest to them...Though the primary brain has been eclipsed, there is, in those who remain...a collective corona that still glows."""
637	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I'm not quite sure how to even describe this - it's kind of a book, kind of a graphic novel, and kind of a work of visual art. But however you category, it's certainly an enjoyable experience. Is you're looking for an in-depth, full lenght biography of the Curies, his probably isn't the place to go, but if you want a good overview of their lives and their lasting impact on the world through modern day, and you want it in a format that is informative, visually stimulating, and accessible, you can't find anything much better than this. It took a little while to get used to the structure of this book, but once I did I really appreciated it.
638	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I love the unique style and approach of this book. It’s a blend of history, art, and science in a collage style. Congratulations to the author for making a book that is unlike any I’ve read before!  The cyanotype prints are beautiful, and I appreciated the scientific details like excerpts from Marie Curie’s lab notebooks. However, the random pages about tangentially related topics detracted from the overall experience for me.
639	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Seeing this in print may have improved it by a star. I read the audiobook so missed any pictures that would have brought this history more to life. Marie was an amazing woman and did not know much about her personal life. It is always so odd how casually people played with radioactive stuff for so long. Like we put it in cereal and condoms just because it glowed...i am amazed we have survived as a species with how dumb we are with new weapons. 
640	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Pros: This book was a nice, little snapshot of Marie Curie's life. I appreciated that, though I wasn't expecting it to be so short.  Cons: It's a short read, but a good one.  Conclusion: If you want an ""intro to Curie"", you need to read this book! All of the important people in her life are mentioned, as well as her academic, scientific, and personal struggles and accomplishments. Think of it like the tip of the iceberg: you will be left wanting to know more."
641	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was really interesting - lots of bits of info I didn’t know, and well told, with glimpses of what would happen 50 and 100 years down the road. I didn’t like the art style all that much, but appreciated it more after reading the author’s explanation of the method at the end of the book. Mechanically, this wasn’t easy to read, with a difficult font, long lines, and sometimes very little contrast between text and background. 
642	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Fascinating, beautifully illustrated, poetic...I can’t even write a review because words won’t do this book justice. I’ve seen GR reviews where people complain about it being disjointed - but this isn’t a traditional biography, and if you want that, this isn’t the book for you. This book is more like a work of art.  And the cover glows in the dark, an added bonus!
643	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Typically I'm not one for non-fiction works, but this book managed to keep my attention with its unique visuals and captivating storytelling. I knew little about Marie Curie and Pierre Curie before reading this and I can say it has done its purpose in educating me about their lives and hardships. This was an incredibly enjoyable read!
644	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	a literally beautiful bought, skillfully conceived and wrought. the drawings lend a real magical feel to the story. i would have liked more detail - and very well might seek out a more definitive history - but that probably would have taken away from the effect. a few too many sidetracks for my taste, but i understand what the author was going for. 
645	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	beautiful and strange -- a mix of art, science, romance, and the history of radiation. I really, really enjoyed the almost scrapbook quality of this, with the deliberate choice of where to place every word, idea, drawing, photograph, and quote. this book is hard to define, and that's a wonderful thing.
646	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The dull glow from the illustrations is an eerie reminder of the substance which Marie and Pierre manipulated in the name of science.  This graphic novel/ work of art tells the story of radiation beautifully and leans into the relationship, hardships and consequences and other volatile elements in the Curie's lives.
647	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"A very short but informative book about Marie Curie. I enjoyed it a lot but I do not know if I would have ""kept up"" with the very short passages of her life if I had not read and watched documentaries before. I really recommend this book for people that want an introduction to Marie Curie but do not want to read a long biography. "
648	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Was a little disappointed with this read. It has the potential to be so much and I was left wanting something more. I felt this was an injustice to this Nobel Prizer winner. Author has written well perhaps just not enough. One of those rare occasions where the movie may just be better than the book. 
649	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Delightful! From the moment I picked up this book by its glow-in-the-dark cover, it engaged me fully. The author weaves together anecdotes from the personal and professional lives of Marie and Pierre Curie with stories from the early days of atomic science using her own unusual artwork and a custom font. It’s like “losing” yourself for the afternoon in a really good museum. Well done!
650	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This illustrated history of Marie Curie’s personal life and legacy was phenomenal. The images were eerie and beautiful, and the weaving and transitioning between her legacy and her personal past was interesting— it was the something new that the author brought forward in her synthesis.  I’m going to read more of her illustrated books, and I can’t wait.
651	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	There are a lot of science and historical books out there but this one stands out. Lauren Redniss was able to narrate the remarkable Marie Curie's life in an artistic and creative manner. Aside from that, she was able to connect the Curies' work to other significant scientific contributions (e.g. X-ray units, atomic bombs). This book will make you fall in love with art and science.
653	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Audiobook, a quick and interesting ""read"" about Marie and Pierre Curie. Their story was interrupted by stories about the effects and uses of radiation in the years since the Curies studied it, which was kind of weird. I wondered if these digressions were on sidebars or something in the actual book. It would have been a little less jarring if there was some segue between the narratives."
654	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	One of a kind! I thought this was a graphic novel but categorising it as a graphic novel would be a disservice to this book. I could not put it down once I started and multiple times, I stopped and got lost in thoughts after reading a particular page or part of the book. If you’re an adult and you’re interested in the history of science, I can’t recommend this book strongly enough!
656	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Purchased sight unseen, expecting a novel about Pierre and Marie Curie. Turns out to be a short biography in an art book. Oversized (difficult to hold) with a unique print process (difficult to read), illustrations 0n very colorful pages some of which are completely blank. More for leafing through than reading.
657	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Lauren Redniss interweaves her amazing art with the love story of Marie and Pierre Curie, an account of their achievements, and explanations of the benefits and consequences of those discoveries. Science, passion, and art--a book like no other.
658	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I really enjoyed this book. It’s about Marie and Pierre Curie. Together they expanded the periodic table by discovering radium and polonium; and won a Nobel Prize for their work. Then after Pierre died, Marie won a second Nobel Prize. The illustrations are also beautifully done. 
659	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A strange and very personal artistic perspective on the life of the Curies and the repercussions of their work. I didn't especially *like* it, but I'm quite sure that I'll *remember* it, and I do appreciate that it exists in the world.
661	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Coming face to face with a glowing apparition on one's bedside table seems to almost be a rite of passage for readers of this book.  I loved the way Radioactive was put together; the illustrations, photos and overall thought put into the look and feel of it made the experience that much more worthwhile. And now I know what the term 'crocodile tears' refers to!
662	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I only understood the human relationships and interactions in this book. The book itself is beautiful and the illustrations are fascinating. All the science stuff was over my head but written in a way that I found interesting. 
664	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Fascinating read and woman. In a time when women were underestimated and excluded, she managed to win two Nobel prizes. Now I can watch the biopic on Prime, which is surely exaggerated, but a biopic on Curie is well overdue.
665	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Nice. Cute. Suavely eery. Informative, in a casual way. I found the colouring superb, the concept pleasing, and the drawings not quite my cup of tea. All in all, a pretty enjoyable read for a saturday morning, with a lasting aftertaste.
666	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Not a traditional novel, but I actually really enjoyed this. It's written in a weird, artsy style, and it jumps from Curie's history to other topics in nuclear, which is weird at first, but it's super interesting, easy to read, and the illustrations/art make it a unique read. 
667	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A spectacular work of art, illuminating and dazzling. I loved the way Lauren Redniss presented the amazing lives of Marie and Pierre Curie as well as the consequences of their brilliant discoveries. Bravo
668	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A wonderful book about the discovery and use of radiation by Marie Curie with help from her husband. She also had several children and helped find ways to use radium to cure sicknesses. Being nearly the only woman in the field, she withstood criticizm.
669	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is stunning from the first page to the last. A blend of biography, history, and art, this is engaging, beautiful, and creative storytelling. I will be buying the book for future reads and to push on all of my friends.
670	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I became aware of this book after watching the Amazon show of the same name. I thoroughly enjoyed learning about the fascinating woman, Marie Curie. The art in this book is eerie and cool, and seems to fit well with the subject matter.
671	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A beautiful concept and execution. Like a picture book for adults of beautiful images paired with the story of Marie Curie and the intersections of her scientific contributions and romantic life. And inspired by radium, the book glows in the dark!
672	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Loved the beautiful way this book is presented. Loved reading it, I think it's beautifully put together, with nice details (loved looking at the cover in the dark). Only point of critique: I found the font a little difficult to read at times.
673	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	WOW. This is an absolutely wonderful, fascinating, gorgeous book. More than a simple biography of someone I knew, but didn't; this is an immersive, engrossing reading experience. Lovely, lovely, lovely.
674	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	DNF, got a headache and stimulation overload every time I opened the book. I don’t know about the content, as I said I wasn’t even able to read the book without an intense headache. The words were also really hard for me to read.
675	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	a very quick read, i’m a huge fan of the layout and fragmentary documentation that gives it an almost scrapbook-y feel. glad i have a physical copy bc this book is an art piece that i definitely want on my shelf.
676	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This reminded me of my final assignment for an undergrad children's literature class where we created a children's book. That doesn't make it bad; the book was well-researched and took a creative approach, but it felt like it COULD have been composed quickly. 
677	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	In my audiobook I got the story but missed what makes the book unique., the artwork. So a trip to the library is required!  The story was excellent with enough scientific info with many real world examples that enriched the story of Marie Currie and partners both scientific and romantic.
678	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Beautiful illustrations and narrative that vacillates between past and present to explore how Curie's actions and discoveries ripple through time. It gave me a new respect for Curie and her contemporaries then left me heartbroken.
679	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Fascinating story told through the interesting dual lens of fact and artistic representation. Although I enjoyed it thoroughly, I would have preferred more of a David McCullough introduction to the brilliant Marie Currie.
680	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A graphic novel (more novel than graphics) about the love and discoveries of Marie and Pierre Curie. Lots of details re discoveries, their uses, and the damage caused. All about the love between those two, and more. 
681	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What a wonderful way to tell the story of not only the intense relationship between Marie and Pierre Curie, but also to discuss the impact of all of their scientific work on the world. 
682	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I wanted this to be either a poem with beautiful illustrations or a novel. It was neither and therefore lost me along the way despite a few tidbits of intrigue.
683	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Beautifully contrasted with well thought out story lines looping past and present together seamlessly. Highly recommend. 
684	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Fantastic as an art project and interesting enough to make me want to know more about Curie. Also the book glows in the dark.
685	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Amazing book with incredible art and a weaving story narrative of Marie Curie and the impact her innovative research has had on modern times (spoiler: not always good)
686	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What a beautiful book combining reportage, history, art and science.
687	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I really wanted to love it but it was hard to read and kind of disjointed.
688	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Super informative and easy to get through. Beautiful illustrations.
689	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Interesting, but the formatting and illustrations were wasted on me. 
690	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	So many layers and textures and echoes throughout the book... I will be thinking about it for weeks.
692	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Fascinating and glowing biography of Marie and Pierre Curie with otherworldly illustrations. Plus it shimmers in the dark. 
694	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	One of my favorite books of all time.
695	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I was a little disappointed by the book. I wanted to read only about Marie Curie’s life and not about radioactivity... I thought it was more a scientific read than a biography
696	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Beautiful, but more of an illustrated novel than a graphic novel (it's all in the image to text ratio and this is a very text heavy book with large prints of luminous art).
697	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is, most of all, a beautiful book. I was startled to find parts of the cover glowing in the dark. 
698	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Beautifully illustrated and written! Love this book. 
699	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Lovely little book with a story that needs to be told. I enjoyed the illustration and the format.
700	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Wasn't quite the tale of love and fallout that I was expecting, but I did learn some interesting facts about radiation and history.
701	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Not what I was expecting. I didn’t realize the book had a lot of pictures! Good information though. 
702	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The most thoughtful & artistic book I’ve ever read. It even glows in the dark, what a joy!
703	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Incredible book, enjoyed the way it was laid out. 
704	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is the second time I have read this book. It's a quick read that that is captivating, heart wrenching, and to the point. Love the artwork too. 
705	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Read this in one sitting, on January 1st, 2020. The perfect way to begin a new year. This book is beautiful, fascinating, enchanting and smart. 
706	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Interesting story. The art style was not for me.
707	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Beautifully designed and thoroughly enjoyable graphic book about the Curies and their work. Historical moments cleverly weaved as the story was told. I'm getting the rest of her books. 
708	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The colors and imagery pull you through. Little nuggets of related radioactive history are sprinkled throughout this take of Marie and Pierre Curie.
709	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is beautiful and moving despite the fact that her style of drawing is really not particularly beautiful. Unique.
711	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	An unusual illustrated biography of Marie and Pierre Curie. Their discoveries and lives are interlaced with historical time-lines. Super interesting.
712	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	History. Art. Science. Love. Equality. Loved the flow of information. Author weaved in many tangential stories. ❤
713	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	An original and interesting treatment. A short read well worth the time.
714	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I think of this book often. The illustrations and the history they told are magnificent. 
716	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A very interesting look at the Curies and the effects as well as repercussions of their Radium discoveries. Dynamically constructed.
717	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	An interesting illustrated biography of Marie Curie, her loved ones, and the impact of their studies of radium and polonium, but the jumping around in time was a little frustrating.
718	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	MAN this was just utterly perfect. Beautiful and tragic in a way that perfectly encapsulates the complicated legacy of the Curies.
719	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Reading this book is a fascinating visual experience as the illustrative material illuminates the text. 
720	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	i loved this sm
721	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Book is interesting. I did watch the movie before reading the book.
722	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I liked the way it was organized. There was some new info that I had not known. Always fun to learn new things.
723	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Absolutely beautiful! Illustrations are intriguing and otherworldly and text is informative and interesting. I loved it and have reread many times!
724	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I enjoy reading this story.
725	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Super interesting look into her life, both personal and professional and the effects of her work
727	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The story could have been good, especially as much as I like the subject. For me, the art and disjointedness got in the way instead of enhancing the read.
728	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Project Nobel #9 - Marie and Pierre Curie, Nobel Prize for Physics -1903, Nobel Prize for Chemistry -1910 
729	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Profoundly fascinating! My only minor complaints are the somewhat lackluster art and the inclusion of too much unrelated material.
730	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Feb. 2022: 3.75⭐️  very much in awe of the creativity and craftsmanship put into this
731	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Gorgeous!
732	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Honestly kind of a weird set up for a book but it was very artistic and an interesting story. 
733	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Lovely art and images. The facts and how they were presented were disjointed and a bit confusing but it was a fun read nonetheless. 
734	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I found this book by accident, simply sitting on the library shelf - I thought it was in the wrong section actually. Such a happy accident. Such beautiful information represented in a stunning way 
735	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What a lovely way to honor Marie Skłodowska Curie and her family. Enjoyed the way story was told and presented. The tragedy, broken hearts and the look at the society in early 20th century.
736	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The story and info were good, but the time jumps were really distracting. And I guess I'm in the minority here, as I genuinely disliked the artwork.
737	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A very brief overview of Marie and Pierre Curie's lives and legacy. Very interesting, nonetheless.
738	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Very fun and enjoyable artwork. The biography was pretty standard, so nothing new there, but the feeling invoked by the illustrations was very nice.
739	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	interesting, liked the art style but sometimes the interspacing of more modern stories and parts disrupted the flow?
740	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Beautiful hand-colored cyanotypes complement the history of the Curies. There were also some radioactivity-related digressions and very cool photographs. 
741	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I now know how Pierre Curie died. And I shall never forget. 
742	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	summer reading 😭
743	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Lovely and unusual book/art piece.
744	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	It also glows in the dark!
745	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Very imaginative. Wove the story of the Curies with the ""fallout"" from their work....Very unique style. "
746	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The narrative is a little difficult to follow sometimes, but the evocative and melancholy style of art seems appropriate for the story.
747	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Beautiful artwork, thoughtfully written 
749	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Wonderful book some pages are just harder to read with tiny fonts on yellow paper. Very much enjoyed the way she put the art together and literally wove a story.
750	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is really beautiful and interesting.
751	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I really enjoyed that this book wasn’t restricted to only Marie curie’s life. It jumped back and forth in time to talk about the atom bomb and other things through the book. 
752	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Loved this book so much - magical and educational - plus it glows in the dark.
753	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The artwork and design of this entire book is incredible. 
754	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book was interesting. It is a very different type of read, it is filled with abstract pictures and not as much text with different fonts. I found narrative parts of the book, about the Curies love story, very cute and lighthearted. However, the reason I gave this book such a low score is because many parts of this book are various things about chemistry and physics. For a person that does not have much background in either of those subjects, it was very confusing to follow. There was not much explanation and only people who well versed in the different elements would truly be able to appreciate this book. This one can be a hit or miss with anyone. If you like science then you'll probably like it! But if that's not really your forte then I would probably stay away from this read!
755	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I picked this up because (a) it's gotten glowing reviews as a National Book Award nominee for artistic and substantive excellence, (b) I enjoy nonfiction, especially nonfiction that evokes existential nuclear dread, and (c) I had hopes my 12 year old daughter would devour a graphic novel about Marie Curie. What can I say? I suppose I had higher expectations than this book could possibly meet. Such is life.  For a glimpse at Redniss' visual style, browse through the publisher's 'look inside'. Redniss used cyanotype as the basis for her illustrations, a technique that involves exposing chemically-painted paper to sunlight for a period, masked by photocopied transparencies of hand line-drawing to generate a bluish batik. She has enhanced this in turn, with overpainting and digital color manipulation, and the result is certainly unlike either the benday dot or painterly approaches more typical of lavishly illustrated books. Not more sophisticated, mind you, just different. The idea of illustration via UV radiation is surely resonant with the book's title and theme, but apart from bluish bleed off Redniss' childlike line, it struck me as more of a conceptual than a visual resonance (and in fairness, I don't really put much stock in conceptual art that fails *also* to move me on its own merits).  Another Goodreader has commented on how Rothko-like Redniss' illustrations are, and I'm inclined to agree. I think the illustrations have tremendous value in establishing and underscoring the mood of the work as a whole; they are by no means incidental or distracting. However, I have to say I found the work as a whole to be somewhat on the thin side. Redniss breezes through the lives of the Curies (and even less thoroughly, their children, the Joliot-Curies) with all the depth of a Wikipedia entry, if Wikipedia assembled their articles by quoting diary excerpts, letters, and interviews. This is not to disdain the author's reliance on primary sources, only to observe that the book is constructed very much like an elaborate collage. As such, it is far more impressionistic than didactic, and so did not meet my expectations for a biography.  The Curies and their progeny remain ciphers as presented here, unfortunately. Notwithstanding the frequent thematic digressions (whether to help Marie give a nod to her Polish homeland by rattling off noteworthy Poles or to juxtapose the loneliness and devastation Marie must have experienced after the accidental death of her husband with the Chernobyl zone of exclusion, among many other brief lowlights in the history of nuclear physics), there is little sense here of a shared passion, obsession, fascination... anything that explains or lends understanding to a systematic life's work that systematically bled away her health and the health of those for whom she is said to have cared. Her investigations of radioactive elements must have made her figuratively as well as literally an enlightened soul, but this biography is utterly lacking in any sense of euphoria.  My daughter has glanced over my shoulder and tsk-tsked at my review... she thinks I'm too hard to please. Indeed I hope that this work will prove more impressionistic in memory than I experienced it in reality so that any resulting fondness might influence her future interests (she could do worse than to follow in the footsteps of Pierre, Marie, Irene, or Paul (Joliot) Curie). It's too bad the Edwardian language makes it less accessible to young adults, certainly unquotable.  You know what would have made this book really work for me? If it had been written as verse, as an epic unsung libretto that more fully evoked its characters and subject matter. This would have better complemented the mood of the illustrations and marked greater contrast with the frequent digressions about Hiroshima, Three Mile Island, Eniwetok, etc. that strained connection to the biographical subject matter. Re-assembled in verse, Redniss might have done for the Curies what John Adams' and Peter Sellars' Doctor Atomic did for Robert Oppenheimer.  Helas, this book does not succeed for me as a gesamkunstwerk. Because its elements taken separately are a bit lackluster (especially in light of my high expectations), I just found it unfulfilling.  To hold a galaxy in one's hands And feel its incandescent brands Will etch indelibly, in shadow spins And each, in cast, invisibly, sins.  Was Curie's a poetic soul? Upon reflection, I'd like to think of her so.
756	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Lovely art book covering the life of two time Nobel Award winner Marie Curie and the fall-out and repercussions of her study of radioactive materials. I liked it but found reading the script and it's color difficult at times.
757	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	[Note: A version of this review, in German, was published in the Swiss comics journal STRAPAZIN.]  A decade or two ago I spent a good deal of time pondering the poetic potential for comics. The 1980s and ‘90s were a time of innovation in the form: autobiography had asserted itself as perhaps the serious mode; cartoonists were exploring non-fiction and reportage, with results as impressive as Sacco’s PALESTINE; we witnessed some of the most exciting formal experimentation in the medium since its earliest days (see, for example, RAW and the delightful books of Marc-Antoine Mathieu); and new, small publishers such as Amok/Freon and L’Association seemed principally influenced by elegant literary magazines and the fine art world. But where, I asked myself, was the poetry? Could comics “do” poetry, or were the two forms simply incompatible? And why didn’t anyone seem to be trying?  With Lauren Redniss’s RADIOACTIVE we have, I believe, a stunning example of comics-as-poetry. Not that the book is written in meter or free verse. In fact, it is fairly prose-heavy, though it reads very lightly. The book may not even properly be a “comic,” since it contains no panels or word balloons. But if RADIOACTIVE is not strictly poetic in form, it is deeply poetic in its sensibilities. Redniss has a subtle ear for language; a confident approach to line, color, and composition; and a breathtaking ability to juxtapose themes and ideas, or to combine words and pictures, so that the whole is artfully greater than the sum of its parts. That is, she has a master’s command of what makes good poetry and what makes good comics.  In simple terms, RADIOACTIVE is a biography of Marie Curie, the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, and the first person to win the Nobel Prize twice (she did so in both Physics and Chemistry). The book is also a wide-ranging history of the human discovery of radiation and its profound effects on our lives: from enabling the progress of technology, to treating cancer, to harboring the potential to end human life via weapons of mass destruction. RADIOACTIVE reminded me of the best work of W.G. Sebald: it considers broad historical themes by means of intimate observations and philosophical insight, but leaves the reader to make connections—and continue making them after the book has been set down. (Which is another feature of the best poems.) For example, after the tragically early death of her husband Pierre, Marie begins to try to “rebuild her life,” and Redniss chooses that exact point to describe what happened at Chernobyl, and its after-effects.  RADIOACTIVE is a magnificent poetic collage, beautiful in its ideas and also beautiful as a physical object. It balances serious historical and life events with whimsy and wry humor. Redniss has done significant research, and the parts of the book that deal with hard science and history are serious but quite readable. She also makes great use of the rich and detailed journals the Curies left behind, pulling much of RADIOACTIVE's language directly from them, often with beautiful, multivalent poetic effect. And she offers fascinating historical material of her own, including interviews with a scientist studying the effects of radioactive disaster on the environment, and with a woman who witnessed the Hiroshima experience as a young girl. (No reader will ever forget that part of the book.)  The book’s pictures match its language and ideas in beauty and power. Most of the drawings are done in a Modernist style—hints of Picasso, Matisse, and Munch abound—which is fitting given that Curie’s scientific advances in the “magic” of radiation in many ways parallel what was going on at that time in literature and art. Her line drawings are energetic, but it is her use of color that dazzles—bold splashes and forms that variously call to mind Gauguin, Van Gogh, or Rothko. Many of the book’s pages were created using cyanotype printing, a technique that depends on the effects of the sun’s radiation on chemically treated paper. The process yields vivid cobalt-blue images reminiscent of X-ray slides, but with an internal glow that, Redniss writes in an Afterword, somehow capture what Marie Curie called radium’s “spontaneous luminosity.”  Named a Finalist for the National Book Award, Lauren Redniss’s RADIOACTIVE is as powerful and rare as an unstable isotope. As a biography, as a graphic novel, and as a work of art it is truly luminous. If you do not believe me, turn out the lights and see: the book even glows in the dark. 
758	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Ultimately too short to be a proper biography. I feel like I didn't learn anything new about Marie Curie and her life. 
759	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Interesting story about the Curies. Hindsight shows that some of their experiments really were dangerous. The book also explains some of the good and bad outcomes from their research.
760	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	While the artwork is beautiful and the story is interesting, I'm not certain that the artwork helps to tell the story or that the story helps to enliven the artwork. The Curies and their descendants are such interesting figures, I found myself craving a more in depth depiction of their lives. I also wonder whether the story benefited from the interstitials from history. Ultimately this book tells the story of an incredible life that was both tragic and desperately sad on both a professional and personal level.
761	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Beautiful printing and decent historical overview, however ""Radioactive"" may not delve as deeply as some readers would prefer into certain aspects of Curie's life or their work. Additionally, the writing style, while informative, might not be as engaging or captivating as other biographies in the same genre. In addition the font choice is a disaster. "
762	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	 This beautiful and unique biography of Marie Curie is published in a large 8 1/2 x 11 format to accommodate the paintings, drawings, maps and photos. The visual material is on every page and usually covers the double page in its entirety. The font style looks like handwriting, which adds to the sense of the originality of the artwork. The text is usually placed on top of the art. The story of her life, like the art, is emotional and expressive. This book, like each individual page, is a work of art.
763	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a great book. Both a biography and a look at the history of radioactive materials. Fascinating type set and art work as well. All around, a lovely story.
764	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Book 12/52 of my 2014 challenge to only read books by women  The book: Radioactive: Marie and Pierre Curie, A Tale of Love and Fallout  The author: Lauren Redniss, author and artist, or more specifically ""graphic biographer"".  The subject: The lives and loves of Marie Skłodowska and Pierre Curie, with the added twist of illustrations.  Why I chose it: I'm interested in the Curies and also enjoy discovering new ways to communicate science, which I thought this book might provide.  The rating: One and a half stars (rounded down because I'm a meanie)  What I thought of it: This book really intrigued me and I was looking forward to reading it, but ultimately it didn't really deliver. It was definitely a case of style over substance. The style was a glow-in-the-dark cover and the use of cyanotype printing to create illustrations. The substance was meant to be a biography of Marie Skłodowska and Pierre Curie. Well, it was a biography, but considering all the praise this book has received, you'd think it would cover new ground, or even old ground in a new way. I've only read one biography of Marie – this one – but I learned nothing new from this ""wholly original book"", except about cyanotype printing. There are also interludes about topics relating to radioactivity in one way or another – such as witness testimony from Hiroshima – which, while interesting, also break up the narrative in a bad way and seem randomly shoved in. The writing is nothing special either.  This book is an example of what I consider the worst sort of art-science collaborations. Neither the art nor the science gain from being linked, nor are they linked in any meaningful way. It always feels like someone's decided, ""I know, I'll do some art! But how to make it a bit different? ...I know, I'll add science!"" and then they've just kind of sprinkled the science over the top so there's a superficial link, but the art has nothing really meaningful to say about science or anything. It's just got sprinkles on top. Tasty science sprinkles, but sprinkles nonetheless.  Um, getting back on track: the art in this book isn't even that good, to be honest, or at least the design isn't. The font Redniss designed for the book gets difficult to read after a while, particularly when it features in a page full of text, which happens rather a lot.  All in all, I would only recommend this book as a precautionary tale on how not to do creative approaches to science. This sort of thing really annoys me, actually, because it feels like as long as you include some ~*art*~ you don't have to think about actually presenting science in a genuinely creative way.  Just one more thing: Here is my favourite Marie Skłodowska Curie quote, quoted in Madame Curie: A Biography. With regards to a proposed gift of a wedding dress, Marie said:   I have no dress except the one I wear every day. If you are going to be kind enough to give me one, please let it be practical and dark so that I can put it on afterwards to go to the laboratory.   Of course, this didn’t appear in Radioactive..."
765	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I have always been fascinated by Marie Curie. I loved how this book juxtaposed her life with information about the use of her life's work.
766	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was a beautiful book about Marie and Pierre Curie and their discoveries of each other and of radioactivity.  Interspersed through the love stories are brutally objective accounts of the devastation brought about by those same discoveries.  This book is gorgeously illustrated and laid out -- like a picture book for adults. Because of it's size (not page count) it's better read at home than lugged on a train or to an appointment.
767	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Radioactive is quite unlike any book I have ever read—part history, part love story, part art work, part social commentary, and all parts sheer imaginative genius. Put simply, “Radioactive” is an illustrated biography of Marie Curie, the Polish-born, two-time Nobel Prize winner French physicist famous for her work on radioactivity and her equally accomplished husband, Pierre. It covers their childhoods, their headlong love story, their scientific collaboration and the way their toxic discoveries, which included radium and polonium, poisoned them in slow motion. However, that is only one component of the book, and correctly explaining the whole book requires a writer more talented than I.  Much of the story’s tone comes from author/biographer/illustrator Lauren Redniss. Her text runs across and over her spooky, vivid and ethereal art. The story fuses different elements together seamlessly. In addition to her own drawings, “Radioactive” is filled with archival images. One page is a copy of the first X-ray image ever made; another is a copy of a declassified F.B.I. document; another is a series of photographs taken after the 1979 Three Mile Island nuclear reactor meltdown, described as showing mutant roses that have become sterile. All this material is woven seamlessly into the wider narrative including quotes from the scientists themselves with ones from the Curies’ own granddaughter, engineering and weapons experts, and even atomic bomb survivors. The book is awash with curious details. At a dinner party Pierre unveiled a small, glowing cylinder of radium for their guests. Marie took to sleeping with a jar of it by her pillow. “Radioactivity had made the Curies immortal. Now it was killing them.”  This book is truly one of a kind. It is one of the most fantastic books-as-object and I highly recommend it to people who love visually stunning books as well as those interested in love stories, science and biographies.  P.S. Last night, I put the book down, turned off the lights and discovered: The book GLOWS IN THE DARK! Extra points for awesomeness. 
768	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"I'd rate this 3.5, so it's too bad GR doesn't have a more nuanced system of rating, but anyway...This book is quite beautiful, and as an object, I'd give it a 5-star rating. It should win book design awards and graphics awards, but I was surprised to see it was an NBA finalist for biography. There are many instances of Curie's own words from diaries, and journals, etc. but this is a sketch of a life more than the full story. And unlike Alison Bechdel's ""Fun Home,"" in which the images add to the story with subtle comic or poignant details, the images here, while stunning, don't add to the story, they accompany it; you don't get the richness of story, I think. there are many times when I find myself wanting more detail, more layers of knowledge, more drilling down into the life, the story, the historical context, the science, rather than just summary. Often, I wish the scientific principles were explained in more detail.(Example: ""Mechanisms that depend on piezoelectricity are found today propelling the droplets in ink printers, regulating time in quartz watches, controlling the shrill wail of smoke detectors...acting as pickups in electric guitars...tennis rackets...fetal heart monitors."" It's a fascinating list, but just a list--it doesn't illuminate more. With the principle applied to such disparate objects, I wanted to know more specifically how these ""mechanisms"" worked in a couple of these modern objects. Curie turns out to be a graceful eloquent writer, but Redniss is not, and at times I wished her prose were as luminous and lovely as the images (but you can't have everything). Finally, the book is physically hard to read--a difficult font, often too close to the gutter, too faint, or against a like-colored background. The images and the original snippets from Curie's writings are the highlight of this book. It's well worth owning as a beautiful book, and well worth reading, even if to propel me toward a more complete biography of Curie. "
769	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Bravo, Lauren Redniss. Not since Sam Kean's ""Disappearing Spoon: And other true tales of madness,love and the history of the world from the periodic table"" have I been so engrossed while digesting history and science simultaneously.  But while Kean's book details the minute and anecdotal history of how each element in the periodic table was discovered and how politics and personal loves influenced those discoveries, Radioactive focuses on the Curie's work with Radium and Polonium.  And Radioactive uses haunting, luminous, cyanotype drawings mixed with photos to convey a silent, inevitable sense of melancholy. The sadness of Marie's lost loves. The doomed scientist's love letters and scientific writings; the snippets of information about the Manhattan Project, Hiroshima, Chernobyl and Three Mile Island, all combine to convey a sense of despairing wonder at what humans can make of nature's gifts.  The author intermingles illustration and text on each page; in fact my daughter accused me of reading a graphic novel when she saw me with the book, and in some ways it acts as a graphic novel, the illustrations as much a part of the story as the texts. But it would be a mistake to categorize it with graphic novels. This is more of a multi-media history.  Make no mistake, this is a well-researched book with plenty of original sources from which the story of Marie and Pierre Curie's work and life is drawn from. In the end, though, it is mostly about Marie and her loves; both human and scientific.  Read this book and appreciate Marie Curie's drive, the greater danger of human scientific accomplishment, and marvel at how small, personal tragedies and scandal can influence human history as much as the bombing of Hiroshima.  Bravo.  This Book's Snack Rating: A bitter chocolate cake from an expensive patisserie with shaved chocolate curls and edible gold flakes on top for the at once visual and visceral enjoyment of the text, images, and history that comes with every bite."
770	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Catastrophism, a geological theory championed by zoologist Georges Cuvier, holds that time lurches forward in sudden disasters.  In this creative and beautiful book, Lauren Redniss recounts the story of Marie and Pierre Curie, their romance and their discoveries. Interspersed in the pages are stories of the long-term effects of their research from the atomic bomb to radiation therapy for cancer, and everything in between.  This is one of the most visually appealing books I have ever come across. Lots of color on the cover and on all of the pages. Original artworks mixed with photographs bring the story to life and lend emotion to the story. It was very interesting to learn about the Curies' private life, as well as Marie's life after Pierre, as many books gloss over the relationship between them and go more into the science. There is plenty of science to be had on these pages as well. I was very interested in the history of radiation and nuclear power that came after the Curies. Since I was expecting more of a biography, that was a surprise.  There were a few problems with the book. On some pages, the colors of the artwork make the text difficult to read. For example, the yellow background of some of the pages made the white text nearly invisible. Secondly, the organization of the book was a bit jarring at times. You would be in the middle of Pierre and Marie's courtship and suddenly you have a vignette about the Manhattan Project. It made the story a bit less cohesive than I would have liked.  Overall though, I found the book a very compelling and interesting read. The artwork is beautiful and it is a nice overview of the Curies. I would recommend it to those interested in science and those that like beautiful books. I think it would also be a compelling nonfiction read for young adults.
771	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Clever writing. From the introduction, With apologies to Marie Curie, who said, 'There is no connection between my scientific work and the facts of private life', to the weaving of Curie's private life with her important life's work. Bonus! It's a work of art. Every page is full of Lauren Redniss' vibrant and beautiful graphics and art. Glowing illustrations radiate (literally, the artwork and text seem to visually radiate), pulse with Marie Curie's life. Many pages are full, busy, with text and artwork, then comes a blank, quiet page which really allows the text to sink in. Its hard to put into words the visual experience along with the text, but it's beautiful, and feels like a more complete experience.  Smart, too. Comparing, for example, Marie's need for a safe haven, after a scandalous affair was discovered and damaging gossip ensued, to nuclear fallout shelters. Also, the set up of this, regarding the affair, Who wouldn't rejoice in the union of Paule and Marie - a coupling of giants?125 Followed with a page of no text, but containing a drawing of Marie and Paule, followed, on the next page, with a looming drawing of Paule's angry spouse and one simple zinger sentence, His wife.127 Timing is everything and Lauren Redniss gets it right. Just loved it!  Captures well the excitement of the Curies over their work with Polonium and Radium and their complete innocence of the dangers. The powers of radium with which they were so enamored - Marie had taken to sleeping with a little jar by her pillow...Their entire lab was toxic.74  Coincidental that I read this right after reading The Emperor of All Maladies. It made up for my disappointment with Mukherjee for barely mentioning anything about radiation treatments and the history thereof.
772	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I found this to be an exquisitely done book. It was so wonderfully put together that I thought it to be a piece of art. The writing itself, while not really introducing anything new, was interesting although some of the items seemed a bit scattered and somewhat randomly put into the story.  I enjoyed reading, after having finished Einstein: His Life and Universe, this short tale of the husband and wife team of Marie and Pierre Curie. Theirs was a story of love mixed within the brilliance of their scientific work. Always admirable for what they found, I saw a new side of Marie both through the Einstein book and this one as well. She was a very determined, forward looking woman, who gave her all at every time of her life. From her love of her husband through her dedication to science at a time when woman were both an oddity and a rarity, Marie stayed the course and was always her own person. Falling in love after the death of her beloved Pierre, caused her much anguish and even made many try and persuade her not to accept her second Nobel. Marie, ever true to herself, not only accepted the award, but attended the ceremony with her head held high and her dignity in tact. Particularly endearing to read again was Einstein's relationship with Marie.  This was my first graphic novel, so I did not know exactly what to expect. In a sense it seemed like a picture book for adults so that was a pleasant and lovely surprise. I enjoyed my time with this book and it will be something I will hold onto and as my grandchildren get old enough to appreciate the story and its illustrations I will share this beautiful book with them.
773	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book, I can say, is far different from any book I have ever read. It tells of the life and findings of Marie and Pierre Curie through vibrantly-colored pictures and interestingly-placed words, and it is more than just a biography, it is a work of art. From their births to their deaths, this book tells of Marie's and Pierre's accomplishments and love, and along the way, more stories and sources are introduced from more modern times that link to radioactivity and how Marie's and Pierre's discoveries led to everything that has to do with radioactivity. These two sure did discover a lot about the radioactive world, and even after their deaths, their children and students went on to find out even more. In fact, Marie's son-in-law is one of the minds behind the fission used in the atomic bombs (even though he didn't want this fission to be used for violence or weapons). This story is simply fascinating and surprising, and the images are stunning and memorable. This book is definitely not for children, but if it were, I would think this was a sure winner of the Caldecott Medal due to the fact that it takes you on a wonderful visual experience. I would recommend this book to all science lovers and those in chemistry, because I, being a chemistry student, found this book especailly fascinating since I just learned about radioactivity but had no idea where the term and many things related to it came from. In conclusion, I believe that by spending just a little time viewing the pages of this book, you will be amazed. However, I feel that by spending a little time reading the pages of this book, you will be intrigued and will come to better appreciate what Marie and Pierre Curie did for science. 
774	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	" ""Radioactive: Marie and Pierre Curie a tale of love and fallout"" was the biography of Marie and Pierre Curie's life. It mostly focussed on Marie's life both in lab discovering radioactivity and all things related in addition to personal life and how the two intertwined, sometimes to her benefit and other times not so much. This book is amazing in a number of ways and although I gave it 4 stars, it's really more like 4.5. Pierre and Marie were incredibly smart and made a number of discoveries after discovering radiation. Interestingly after discovering radioactivity, which gave them a Nobel, people started using radioactive material for all sorts of things since they just thought it was cool or may contain special mystical powers. People were putting radium in face-cream, cigarettes, toothpaste, and even CONDOMS!!!! Others were stating it could cure Anemia, Diabetes, high blood pressure and many other ailments. Another interesting point is that when Marie was awarded her second Nobel prize the committee was thinking of taking it away because she was involved in an affair. Fortunately, people came to their senses and gave her the award. The funny thing is that Einstein made consoling remarks to her, telling her not to worry about what the news papers print about her. This was easy for Einstein to say since the book stated he had affairs of his own! The other spectacular thing about this book are the illustrations and font. The illustrations were made in a special way as to give off a radioactive vibe, like a negative film that has a glow to it. And the font was custom just for this book too. All in all, this was a great book that read like an episode of Radiolab. I would highly recommend it to anyone, especially scientists. "
775	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	My first nonfiction book of the year! I enjoyed reading this memoir. It was an accessible read even though I admit I didn't understand as much of the science as I felt that I should have. Even though it's promoted as a story about Marie and Pierre Curie, I think that it's more accurate to say that it's the story of the Curie family and there intergenerational love of science. I enjoyed learning more about Marie Curie and confess that I thought that she could have done better than Pierre, but love is love. Also the injustice of being a female scientist is real even today but more so for her. She seemed awesome but underappreciated. I definitely know more about her now than I did before I read the book.  I really wanted to know more about how Marie and Pierre's exposure to radioactive materials affected their kids growing up and the memoir doesn't go into detail about that. I wanted to know more about how Marie handle motherhood and work because I didn't get the impression that Pierre was involved in that side of their life.  I greatly appreciated the interconnectedness of the Curie's work in our late 20th and 21st century lives. I was amazed that the Nobel Prize was created by someone who created dynamite and full of admiration for the Curies' and other scientists dedication to intellectual freedom. They wanted the results of their work available to others and not limited to governments and militaries.  It's a short memoir/biography that brings up a lot of questions about the outcomes and repercussions of scientific discoveries because you can't control how your ideas will be used.
776	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A gorgeous book. It mightn't be of such interest to someone who already knows a lot about the science of radioactivity, but the Curies' story is presented here so beautifully I suspect you'd still enjoy it. The author has interwoven the story of Marie & Pierre Curie with pieces about the legacy of their work - e.g. nuclear medicine and nuclear weapons - and generally including first-person narratives from people affected or involved.  There's a video of the author talking about her work (see here for a blurb and a link: http://www.brainpickings.org/index.ph... it's particularly interesting to hear her talk about her process for preparing the illustrations (also covered at the end of her book). She started by making cyanotypes, an old photographic method that uses Prussian blue in the development of the image. (Blueprints are cyanotypes). She liked this as an idea because it involved the use of radiation (sunlight) to bring about the image, in a manner similar to the production of X-rays. She then manipulated and coloured the blueprints in various ways. They have a ghostly, luminous quality about them (even in reproduction) that is a lovely match to the content of the book.  Do yourself a favour! But I'm not lending you my copy, it's too precious. Thank you to my friend Alex, who gave it to me as a present!  My copy: New and a present, didn't you read that earlier sentence? By the way, possibly not available in Australia yet (ner ner ni ner ner), you might have to order it in.
777	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	As a librarian unusual books often get brought to my attention. In this case it was a slim but beautiful biography of Marie Curie with a particular emphasis on her and Pierre's love story. At 29 c. and loaded with beautiful, full-color glossy images of prints made by author, Lauren Redniss, it was a bit out-of-place in the shelves of biographies in the non-fiction room. It certainly wasn't getting easily browsed by the intended audience. And so I was asked whether this ought not properly be moved to the graphic novel section. Sure, someone looking for a biography of Marie Curie might stumble upon it in the 920s and be charmed, but the visual readers it was made for probably weren't wading through shelf after shelf of biographies hoping to find it. Upon scrutiny I had to admit this is actually an illustrated non-fiction book - the story is told primarily through words not images. But the illustrations are amazing, and it is hard to imagine the book being particularly absorbing without them. Which means that it will probably appeal to graphic novel fans. So all of you graphic novel fans, lovers of The Making Of and Super Spy and Lynda Barry, give this book a try. It is more art than narrative, with impressive use of color and shape to evoke the complicated truths of radiation and politics and love. Through these images I was pulled in to the Curies's story and, without even trying, learned some things about physics. 
778	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"This book was amazing.The closest thing I can compare it to is a picture book. But, even though some of the best picture books transcend child-centered audiences it still seems like the moniker doesn't do this peice justice. It is an art book. But I usually don't ""get"" most art. I look at it and say ""O, that's pretty"" and move on... it doesn't seem to affect me the way it does most of my friends. THIS stuff affected me. I FELT this stuff. It was extrodanary. Maybe because it went along with the story, so I didn't have to provide as much imagination. Most of the art was cyanotype printing which made led a really interesting feel to the whole thing.  This writer had such a unique way of telling a story. Out of nowhere she would start saying something that made me say ""What on earth is she talking about?"". But by the end of the paragraph I'd be like ""O, wow... that was so deep"". She was interspersing Mme. Curie's biography with weird things from the present like an orthonologists account of mutatations of birds living near Chernobyl. This was super strange but ultimatly led to amazing effects.  Of course, even on its surface Mme. Curies life is very interesting and the entire history of the discovery of radiation is fascinating and strange. The mind still boggles at how people handled these elements so casually for so long.  Mme. Curie's last words were ""This would have come anyway."""
779	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The graphic novel is quite the vogue literary specimen these days. Yet if they all vary in terms of their individual visual style, most of them tend to echo the author's extremely personal (if not downright solipsistic) point of view. There's nothing wrong with this approach as it has produced startling work, including anything by Chris Ware and the recent Asterios Polyp, to start. And the powerful political work of Joe Sacco is almost beyond reproach at this point.  Radioactive though, is refreshingly different. It's an emotionally charged history lesson, focusing on the lives of Pierre and Marie Curie. Redniss deftly intersects this main story with vignettes of how the Curies' scientific discoveries around radiation were a mixed blessing at best, touching on cancer treatment and the atom bombs dropped on Japan. This strategy elevates Radioactive to more than just a biography and instead it becomes a powerful meditation on scientific discovery and progress, leaving the reader ambivalent to the Curies' accomplishment, as well-meaning as they might have been.  Another interesting note: much of the book's beautiful illustration was created using light sensitive paper that has a connection to the Curies' scientific study, which gives the form a nicely poetic connection to the content.
780	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I requested this book from the library without seeing it first. The subject sounded interesting from a summary I read, but I was very surprised when the librarian handed me the book. It's a picture book! But not one for kids. This is a well-written story of Pierre and Marie Curie's lives and work. The science experiments and history of the Curies' scientific work are explained simply enough for anyone to understand. There are also side stories of how the Curies' discoveries have been used later in history, and what the consequences were, good and bad. Redniss uses lots of quotes from personal writings of Pierre and Marie throughout the book, and she succeeds in showing that Pierre and Marie's relationship was much more than just being collaborating scientists, even if that is how it started. Redniss put this story into one of the most beautiful-looking books I've read in a while. I don't think I saw a single white page with black text in the entire book. The pages are fully colored with blues, greens, yellows, oranges, and practically every page has beautiful drawings. I'm not an artist, so I can't justly describe the artwork. But I will say this -- it brought to mind Picasso, watercolors, and it was delicious to take in! The artwork itself gives this book 5 stars. A fairly quick read, and very enjoyable.
781	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Nerd alert! This book chronicles the intertwined story of the nascent power of radioactivity and Marie Sklodowska Curie and Pierre Curie's professional and personal partnership. Just the look of the book is like no other I've laid my hands on recently -- the verbiage (in a font designed by the author) is interspersed with artistic images to match the story. In fact, there is a style of print used that is based on a chemical process that produces somewhat of a negative image that glows (just like a photographic plate exposed to radioactive rays). Marie, a Pole by birth and French by assimilation, was a woman ahead of her time -- so darn smart, driven and forward thinking about just how much women can do (have babies, be a slaves to work, win Nobel Prizes, swipe other husbands, etc.). One might say she and her husband were simply in the right place at the right time with their research but they took that ball and ran and then some. I wish I had read this book about two chapters ago when I was teaching these topics because the personal story behind the science (and the way the science is described in this book) would have inspired a lecture. To top off an already compelling historical account, I really liked how the author interspersed modern-day ""radioactivity events"" into the complex Curie story. I have to add this book to my library!"
782	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"I find Marie Curie endlessly fascinating. I am also intrigued by the replication (as if through DNA) of a model of partner marriage across generations: Marie & Pierre Curie, Irene & Frederic Joliot-Curie, Helene Joliot-Curie & a grandson of Paul Lanegevin. Perhaps proof that the Curies' relationship was not just a high-profile fluke but a replicable prototype. The feminist me, as always, finds this encouraging. I enjoyed this easy reading review of the Curies & their associates' scientific accomplishments. Redniss counterpoints the science with these scientists' internecine romantic relationships. Radioactive is more an art book than a text book, however. Although I found Redniss's drawings charming & at times truly appealing, they didn't knock my socks off. I paid more attention to her words than her images while reading, even though the visual would seem to be the dominant mode of expression here. The end note regarding the process of cyanotype printing that Redniss employs for many of her illustrations & its particular appropriateness in a book about the Curies is both interesting & illuminating. It did cause me to take a second, more discerning, look at the art. Note: I was particularly intrigued by photos of a mutant rose & a mutant zinnia collected from the area near the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant since the ""accident"" in 1979."
783	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I really enjoyed the story and the writing. I enjoyed both the romance and the science. The medium of a graphic novel makes it even more engaging, but I actually didn't like the artwork very much- I don't like the style which looks unfinished and childish. I really liked the concept of the cyanotype printing as a reference to the work of the Curies and the depictions added to the story-telling, but the execution wasn't very good.  I liked the weaving in of events that took place later surrounding radio-activity but often it came a little too suddenly. In a medium like a graphic novel, having the parallel information on a facing page with a visual indicator that a switch was occurring would have worked far better than as the very next paragraph on the same page or backing page. This was often disorienting. (For example a paragraph about an event in Marie Curie's life would be immediately followed without transition to an event that occurred many years after her death that was related only by a theme)  Also, I didn't mind the font but I don't understand why it was named after the leader of the séances that the Curies attended since that was not an integral part of their lives or work, at least not as depicted in this book.  Overall, I really liked the novel part but the graphic part could have been much improved.
784	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	First I have to say that the book is beautiful. Its textured cover, luminescent colors and oversize dimensions generated a feeling that I hadn’t felt since I was a child. Writer and artist Lauren Redniss has created a unique work difficult to categorize, which is a blend of original art, photographs, graphics and text (as a finalist for the National Book Award in Nonfiction).  Marie Curie (11/7/1867--7/4/1934) was one of the most iconic of women scientists, as a pioneer in researching radioactivity. She was not only the first woman to win a Nobel Prize but also the first person to win two Nobel Prizes, and in two different sciences at that, chemistry and physics. This beautiful book tells the story of Curie through the two invisible but immensely powerful forces that guided her life: Radioactivity and love. A turbulent story — a passionate romance with Pierre Curie, the epic discovery of radium and polonium, Pierre’s sudden death in a freak accident in 1906, Marie’s affair with physicist Paul Langevin, her coveted second Noble Prize — under which lie poignant reflections on the implications of Curie’s work more than a century later as we face ethically polarized issues like nuclear energy, radiation therapy in medicine, nuclear weapons and more.  MORE colorful images -- http://www.brainpickings.org/2011/05/... 
785	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"I'm not sure I will get to read the text before returning this, but I am totally fascinated by the form, and by the glowing lines of the prints (cyanotypes, related to sunprints). The cover is printed with glow-in-the-dark ink, and you can see pages from the book here: http://laurenredniss.com/radioactive3...  ""A Note on Cyanotype Printing  ...Ultraviolet rays cause the paper's chemical coating to form insoluble ferric ferrocyanide, known as Prussian blue. This turns the paper blue in any exposed areas. When the print is washed with water and citric acid, areas that were protected from the sun by dark areas in the negagive are rinsed clear.""  Using this process to create the images in this book made sense to me for a number of reasons. First, the negative of an image gives an impression of an internal light, a sense of glowing that I felt captured what Marie Curie called radium's 'spontaneous luminosity.' Indeed, the light that radium emits is a cyan-like, faint blue...  Cyanotype prints are highly sensitive. Depending on how they are cared for, over time they can yellow or fade. However, they also have regenerative capacities: even temporarily protecting a faded print from the light can restore its original intensity."""
786	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"""Radioactive"" is chock-full of fascinating facts about the Curies' professional and personal lives. Madame, her daughter Irene, and her granddaughter Helene are all revolutionary role models for little girls everywhere. Science isn't just for boys!  The library categorizes this as Graphic Non-Fiction, but there is quite a bit of text. I wasn't sure I liked the illustrations at first. But the more I read, the more integral to the story they became. Be sure to read ""A Note On Cyanotype Printing"" on page 199 and you will definitely agree.  Due to the subject matter, there is much talk about ""glowing"". I especially liked this quote by Douglas Hofstadter (p. 180), ""no matter how much you absorb of another person, can you have absorbed so much of them that when that primary brain perishes, you can feel that that person did not totally perish from the earth . . . because they live on in a ""second neural home""? . . . In the wake of a human being's death, what survives is a set of afterglows, some brighter and some dimmer, in the collective brains of those who were dearest to them . . . Though the primary brain has been eclipsed, there is, in those who remain . . . a collective corona that still glows."""
787	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A.Maz.Ing. This book is not only stunningly gorgeous to look at but beautifully written. Every page, even the filler pages, were a treat to explore. It's not a graphic novel in the traditional sense, more an illustrated book for grown ups, if there's even a difference. The author uses her own designed font and a combination of cyanotype prints, hand drawings, paintings, photographs, ephemera, and creates a rich, new, full experience of the Curies and the fallout of their own lives that you simply can't get just reading an encyclopedia entry.  The story itself follows, in equal measure, the lives of three generations of Curies, their science loves and discoveries, their human loves and discoveries, and the far reaching effects of both. It's a non-fiction book that reads like fantasy. I knew an average, sound byte level of information about the Curies, so this was both fun and educational. I fear I now may become obsessed with Curie science. But, I think even folks who know a lot about the subject will find its treatment here to be refreshing and I would recommend it to absolutely anyone. Perhaps if I'd had more of this in high school I would have been a more engaged student in science!
788	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"(sigh)... beautiful!  It’s definitely a romantic fairy tale that never forgot about Pierre. Marie and Pierre's constant companionship in their research lead them live a lovely yet toxic dream.  Such a tragic ending to Pierre, Marie shared with us her inner most feelings: I spoke to you. I told you that I loved you and that I had always loved you with all my heart... It seemed to me that from this cold contact of my forehead with the casket something like a calm intuition came to me. Very lovely created and told, I was moved into tears.  She was definitely an amazing, brilliant woman that was among imbeciles. She was poised to become the first person, man or woman, to win [the Nobel Prize] twice.  Einstein quoted, after the noble committee tried to stop Marie from coming to the banquet to accept her 2nd Nobel Prize: ""I will always be grateful that we have among us people like you and Langevin among us... in whose company one can rejoice. If the rabble continues to be occupied with you, simply stop reading the drivel. Leave it to the vipers it was fabricated for."" Well put! Brilliant minds should be rewarded.    "
789	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is lovely. Illustrated and colorful, almost a graphic novel sensibility. The pages are richly colored and there are line drawings to illustrate. There are also pages that show things like a pencil rubbing of the Curie's headstone, a reprint of the very first x-ray, and a copy of an FBI file on someone who tried to convince FDR to begin the US's own atomic bomb project.  It has an interesting narrative structure -- almost more website jumps from link to link than straightforward biography.  But it also includes great content and tells the story of Marie Curie and her research. It covers things like the far-reaching effects of her findings (radiation poisoning, the atom bomb) and her activities (her work establishing X-ray trucks during WWI, her affair after Pierre's death with a fellow scientist). It touches on Rontgen, Einstein, Chernobyl, dancer Loie Fuller, and many others. It quotes scientists, thinkers, politicians, and philosophers.  I am sure there's lots of additional information about Marie Curie that could be added, but it does a great job of introducing her and her work. And it's a absolutely beautiful book.
790	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	7/11/12: This book is curious, strange and wonderful. It's hard even to know how to describe it: a visual biography? A graphic history? A picture book for adults?  Redniss, a graphic artist, has combined all of her talents to create a work that is at once a biography of Marie and Pierre Curie, their scientific discoveries, and their personal lives, AND a short and selective history of the use of radioactivity in the hundred years since the Curies' discoveries. The Curies' story is brilliant and tragic; the interviews with people who were present at Hiroshima, at Three Mile Island, and at the nuclear tests in the American West are breathtaking. Redniss created her own typeface for the book, and used a special process (called cyanotype, don't ask me to explain it) to make the art on each page. The book was a finalist for the 2011 National Book Award; I'm sorry it didn't win, as it's the kind of book that is a tough sell, so the prize would have given it the boost it needed to get people to read it. (Somehow my glowing--haha--review isn't quite as helpful a boost, though I hope it inspires someone to find and read this book!)
791	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is the most sensuous book that I have read in a long time. It is a five senses experience that envelops you. The visuals of cyanotype are eerily beautiful, the smell of the new pages is a subtle fragrance, the thickness of the pages makes for a rustling noise when you turn them, the heft and shape of the book, and the texture of the front and back covers pleases the pads of your fingertips. Did I mention that it glows in the dark like a radioactive isotope?  Marie Curie is one of my heroes and I read as much about her as possible. This was a gentle and easy introduction to the Curie's lives and their incredible accomplishments, in science and other fields. One of the best parts of the book for me was the mention of the ramifications of their discoveries, from the obvious to the not so obvious, like tennis rackets (read the book and find out how).  I get my books from the library and I do not buy from bookstores, however, I will buy this book for my personal collection. That is my highest compliment to an author.
792	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I really enjoyed this book. It is a true feast for the eyes, a work of art. Every page has a different layout, different font, different colors. You have two choices with this book, you can read the story by either the words or the illustrations.  Besides the obvious visual interest the book provides it also gives you an introduction to Madame and Pierre Curie and the history of the discovery of radioactivity. I found this just an introduction which left me with a curiosity to learn more. I would be really interested in reading a longer biography on the Curies and a more in-depth history of radioactivity. In this aspect I found the book a little bit lacking. I was not satisfied at the end. However the fact that it sparked my interest enough for me to want to seek out further information is to it's credit.  I believe that this book is worth a look if only for the visual feast it is. If you are interested in Marie and Pierre Curie or the discovery of radioactivity you will definitely find this book to be something special!
793	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"I loved this book - and by that I mean the physical book. The texture, the colors, the drawings and the fact that it glows in the dark are among the the things I enjoyed. Really, it GLOWS in the dark.  The information in the book reads like observations and fun facts distributed among the drawings. It does convey the story of Marie & Pierre Curie in a whimsical, almost lyrical prose. Sometimes it seems almost like a poem.  It does also talk science - clearly & without embellishment. One can't really talk about the Currie's without talking about radioactivity. It was both their triumph & their demise.  I'm not giving it four stars because it is great literature. I'm giving it four stars because it's charming and innovative in conveying a story of fairly ordinary people who accomplished extraordinary objectives. More that just the words, the art, the colors, and the choice of paper each have an important part in this ""biography.""  Read it, but don't forget to touch and feel the book. And, for haven's sake, do turn the light off so you can see it glow. "
794	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a graphic novel in the sense that it has pictures on most of the pages as well as words, (much like Audrey Niffenegger's _The Adventuress_ or _Three Incestuous Sisters_) rather than that of a comic book type of graphic novel. This book is the story of the relationship between Marie and Pierre Curie, their work, and how what they discovered evolved over time to become what it has today. It also delves into Marie's life after Pierre died and slightly touches on her daughter Irene and her husband and how they continued Marie's studies in radioactivity.  The writing tends towards terseness and includes many quotes from the subjects involved. The pictures seem loosely and possibly quickly drawn and not as 'arty' as some books, but it leaves an air of humanity to the subjects and many of the blue colored pages evoke the feeling of X-ray photographs. Overall, I enjoyed learning about the life of Marie and Pierre Curie and getting a sense of what their day to day included. A quick read.
795	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Challenge #14 A Nonfiction book (popsugar 2015 reading challenge: http://tinyurl.com/mmbkthd)  A fantastic biography of Marie Curie's life! She is a fascinating person, and I have never heard her story before, and I love how this book did it. Since nonfiction is not a normal genre for me, this has been one of my favorites of what I have read in the genre.  The illustrations work beautifully with the story. I really enjoyed the use of color to depict the different parts in her life, and the emotions she was feeling. Another way this book is successful is the primary accounts of atomic situations, for instance the woman who lived through Hiroshima.  The uses of radium back then surprised me. The commercializations of radioactive paints/other materials was so reckless back then, but who could blame them? It was a light source that didn't seem to have any side effects. Unfortunately ms. Curie and her husband suffered from this misinformation, but now before winning 2nobel prizes!  I loved this book. It was wonderful! 5/5 stars
796	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The colours and unique presentation drew me to this book. Reading it was easy, one hour late at night and another in the morning. Given the option, I would read for several more, yet this is unnecessary. Redniss used the amount of pages needed and no more. I appreciate the treatment of Madame Curie as she presents a paradox: the most famous female scientist that most of us few little about. This book shows the life of a scientist and a person, stripping away the appearance of godliness and restoring humanity. Her story is one many of us can relate to. With the emotional and organic art style in addition to the text, the declining health of Curie becomes real and the pathos stinging. While teaching little about the science, Redniss does share important dates about the development of nuclear technology that the Curies were a catalyst for. Because this book doesn't have any comparison (that I know of) it's difficult to judge. Though I hope those who appreciate the beauty of science will enjoy reading as I have.
797	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Just finished ""Radioactive"" a short book which is subtitled ""Marie & Pierre Curie--A Tale of Love and Fallout."" It was a very strange and extremely rewarding experience. It don't remember why I bought it in the first place -- maybe because I sometimes enjoy graphic novels and I had read somewhere that this was the only graphic novel to be a National book Award Finalist. But it isn't really a graphic novel. It is not in comic book style but is a regular non-fiction narrative embedded in a lot of very odd but appropriate art work. What a life Marie Curie had before she died from the many years of exposure to radium: she was friends with Einstein, had a duel fought on her behalf between a lover and a scandal mongering journalist, was the first woman to win a Nobel prize, and was the first person to win two--in physics and science. The book has a fascinating cast of supporting characters and provides a history of radioactivity from Curie's isolating radium from uranium to the present day. "
798	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I wasn't able to concentrate on reading this book as much as I would have liked, (it wouldn't have taken me so long to read it if I had) but I am certainly happy that I read it.  This book defies categorization - it's a nonfiction biography, but it's also a series of absolutely gorgeous illustration created via cyanotype printmaking. It's not a graphic novel, but certainly falls into the category of a beautiful art book as well as a well-researched nonfiction.  I wouldn't suggest using this book for an academic source, but as an interesting read that contrasts the Curie's research and relationship with the eventual fall out of their research, this book is an excellent read. It's also worth picking up if you're interested in non-conventional illustrations and post-modern art and printmaking. The illustrations in this book were truly and absolutely gorgeous in my opinion, and accompanied by Redniss' narrative of Currie's life and research, as well as where that research has taken us since Marie Currie's death.
799	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	While reading this book, you will likely be inspired to illegally copy and frame Redniss' beautiful prints which depict the passionate work and home life of the Curies. Her prints echo the time period; their bold colors and simple, strong lines remind me of early Matisse.  Redniss connects the dynamics of the Curies' relationship to each other, their work, and after Pierre's death, Marie's tumultuous affair with Langevin, to the explosive, destructive, and rehabilitative properties of radiation. Some of those connections seem more organic than others, but I was especially intrigued by the stories of radiation's early popularity with the public. Radium became the magic elixir of its day and could be found in face cream, toothpaste, and suppositories. Even Pierre Curie thought it might allow humans to see into the spirit world.  This is a lovely book that is highly conducive to bedtime reading. It's a picture book for adults. 
800	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Liked it, didn't love it. It had a senior-year-art-project vibe to it, which isn't altogether a bad thing, but a more sophisticated artist could have done it better.  The overarching story of Marie Curie was good, and the isolated related bits were mostly (but not all) good too. The jumps between the main narrative and future applications of atomic science were too swift; my guess is that the author is a visual artist and not a writer. Sometimes it seemed like she was trying too hard to include primary material: for example, using what read as eyewitness reports of the Curies' daughter, but for events she could not have witnessed.  I understand what the author was trying to do and I like the concept, but the execution could have been better. It likely would have helped if I'd liked the artwork more. The colors and technical aspects of it were great but it just wasn't my style, so it didn't add to my experience as much as it should have.
801	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Thiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiissssssssssssssss booooooooooooooooooooook! It's so rad, you guys.  Okay, at its heart, it's a biography of the Curies, with a primary focus on the work that Marie did to discover Radiation, and the legacy that she and Pierre left behind. It is beautifully illustrated, which I was not expecting, but Redniss is clearly a master. Oh my gosh, the illustrations and how she is able to render the glow of radium, and other illuminations!  I love the bits that at first seem tangential; Redniss quotes people who used Radium in their work, either in the early days when Radium was thought to be a magic cure for what ails you (seriously a bad idea) and those who have used it for more destructive ends. Even when we try and use nuclear power responsibly, it can end in disaster (I'm looking at you, Chernoble). All in all, the Curies left a mixed legacy that is compelling to read about.
802	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	While I liked this book and the creative illustrations (I've been told the cover and some of the illustrations glow in the dark - mine didn't), I don't understand what all the to-do is about. For the most part, these are excerpts from diaries, other histories, and journals. They are assembled in such a way that the telling of the Curie's story is interesting and personal. But there are so few words that are the author's own, that it's a stretch to credit the author with 'writing' the book. Instead, the author substitutes illustrations for words and then assembles the quotes and images into a kind of linear collage. I found some passages interesting, I learned a few things about Marie's personal life. The selection of color, the liquid flow of imagery was engaging. But in the end, this book left me feeling unsatisfied - there simply wasn't ample depth of story to sate my interest. This was simply not that kind of book. 
803	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Great book. I used it, along with other sources, to prepare for a library presentation on the life of Marie Curie. Especially valuable is the attention Redniss gives to the situations and issues we face as a result of the Curies' work. As Redniss says on her website:  In the century since the Curies began their work, the world has struggled with nuclear weapons proliferation, debated the role of radiation in medical treatment, and pondered nuclear energy as a solution to climate change. These debates all have roots in a love story in 19th Century Paris.  I also love all the creative detail she put into the making of the book: the process by which she created the illustrations (a cameraless photographic technique based on the idea of exposure) and the fact that she designed a special font. The book captures the eerie glowiness of radiation. And the cover even glows in the dark!
804	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I'd checked this out before and not gotten to it, so I was determined to read it for this readathon. Once I started, it seemed especially appropriate to be reading while I was in the midst of The Making of the Atomic Bomb, because of course there are dozens of interconnections.  I've read a lot about Marie Curie, but never an actual biography, so it was gratifying to learn more about her life. I loved the graphic format of this book -- with all its inclusions of drawings, illustrations, and photographs. It does shift back and forth a bit in time, which is sometimes a bit disorienting. This isn't just a story about the Curies, but also about the radiation they discovered. And Redness's opinion of radiation seems to fall a bit more on the negative side than mine, but okay.  A remarkable book, and I'm glad to have read it.
805	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a fascinatingly stream of consciousness approach to a biography. The art is beautiful, but more than that the interjections of modern radiation trivia add depth and meaning to Madame Curie's story. She lived an interesting life of scandal and scientific discovery, so any biography is bound to be interesting, but Redniss' approach definitely added something to the tale. The cyanotype images definitely added an ephemeral, radioactive quality to the work. When Redniss chose to break away from that medium for the more realistic photography, that too added emphasis and interest to the otherwise well known story. Additionally, the lesser known anecdotes like radiation spas and crystal growth offered a deeper, more poignant, yet broader level to Mme. Curie's personal story.  All together not a typical biography. I liked it a great deal and recommend it highly.
806	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a fantastic and artfully done book about the husband and wife team of Marie and Pierre Curie. Together, they discovered radium and polonium. After four years of steady labor, four hundred tons of water, and forty tons of corrosive chemicals, on March 28, 1902, they managed to extract one tenth of a gram of radium.  Marie achieved many other notable firsts: First female to earn a PhD in France First female to win a Nobel prize. (She was born the year Alfred Nobel discovered dynamite) After Pierre's death, the Sorbonne offered her his professorship - first time in its 650 year history a woman was professor First person to win two Nobel prizes first in Physics, second in Chemistry. Her daughter, Irene and her husband would win another Prize for their discovery of artificial radiation.
807	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"An interesting book. On every page I said, ""I didn't know that"" and came away at the end sobered and impressed by the life of Mme. Curie and how influential her work was on our everyday modern lives. The all-color graphic format was unusual to read, but in the end it helped carry the text forward. I didn't like the illustrations as such--the semi-abstract prints were kind of off-putting, but then--how do you illustrate a scientific biography that is meant to be accessible to people beyond the usual science geek non-fiction readers? As a reading experience, it was like a pre-school picture book, which is maybe what we adults need more of--serious adult non-fiction in a graphic novel mode. I know that I regularly pick up non-fiction books from the library and never finish them because I don't have time to read that much--but this took only an hour to go through."
808	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"This book is hard to pin down as a specific genre - it is part biography, part history, part science nonfiction, part art book, part philosophy, etc, etc. That is probably what makes it so powerful and beautiful.  I learned about and was deeply engaged in a person and topic that originally did not interest me, which is a huge accomplishment for any writer. The images were haunting and matched the subject material perfectly. I liked the main plot in combination with the somewhat randomly interconnected scientific tangents - in most cases, all the tangents came together beautifully. In some cases, it felt a bit forced like ""well this is interesting, but does it really improve the flow of the story?""  An amazing story about an amazing scientific development and its unforeseen consequences, an remarkable woman, and her passionate personal relationships.  "
809	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A different book than I usually read what with its colorful drawings that accompany the sparse text. But Ms. Redniss packs a lot of information in a quick read, enough to make me want to read more of the Curies and keep an eye on her future work.  I had a couple gripes with the digital book I read, specifically an iBook. The 'highlight' function was not operational, a disappointment. But far more egregious were the several passages where 'white text' was positioned on a 'white' background', and 'black text' on a 'black background', effectively making that text unreadable. Because the highlight function was not operational there was just no way to read those passages. I presume the paper versions of 'Radioactive' did not contain this flaw, but I am curious if anyone else experienced this phenomenon with the digital copy of 'Radioactive...'
810	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"This is a hard book to review, as some have suggested here, because of the importance of the art and production. It's a wonderful concept and Redniss is very gifted: she writes the biography of Pierre and Marie Curie, draws the creative illustrations, designs the typeface.... The book looks and feels lovely, with its luminous ""radium-like"" blue pages and ghostly figures. I feel churlish then in finding fault, but I didn't find the story that compelling. She writes well and juxtaposes interesting subjects--like Hiroshima and the history of psychic mediums-- but I just didn't think they added up. All those fascinating pieces! But what do they mean? What do they tell us about Marie, especially? I'm a writing teacher and I can't help carrying over that professional eye into my personal reading. "
811	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I truly enjoyed this book, because I myself have often tried to reconcile my admiration for the science and scientists behind nuclear physics with my revulsion at its use for weapons and the devastation it has wreaked even in peaceful applications. Redniss poetically pulls back the curtains on the dusty, static images of the Curies and reveals their shared lives of love and devotion: to each other, to their science, to discovery. This is a love story, or rather, several love stories, told against a backdrop of destruction and decay. In telling the stories of the Curies as well as outlining the misadventures of their most unruly child: nuclear science, Redniss explores the contradiction inherent in atomic history. Despite the violent and greedy ends to which atomic science has been applied, the means itself was born from a place of true love.
812	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A little bit biography, a little bit history. I've had a lifelong adoration of Marie Curie and was hoping this graphic novel would live up to my expectations. Gladly, it did. In addition to recounting the details of Pierre and Marie's lives, Redniss interwove snapshots of radioactive history--good and bad--since the Curies performed their experiments. At the end of the book Redniss explains that the drawings were made using cyanotype techniques, which ties the drawings in nicely with the x-ray techniques used to discover radiation/ radium. Also, glow-in-the-dark cover! The only thing about this book that bugged me was the typography. It has a juvenile quality that I found distracting, especially when white font was used on light-colored pages. Other than that, this book is a solid showing.
813	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Someone recommended this to me because of the cyanotypes used within. And indeed, the artistic aspects are eye-catching. The explanation of process at the end was especially interesting to the printmaker in me. The science and biography were likewise interesting. The telling, though, had a few too many tangents and the chronology often got muddled.  (Examples noted while reading: page 148 Tangents such as this one about fallout shelters are kind of annoying - could be set apart in a more obvious fashion. Perhaps she intends them to run together for some deeper reason, but this reader finds it distracting / annoying. page 171 Chronology often confusing. P169 is about events in 1939, ends with a statement implying Marie is slipping away at the same time as those events, but on next page find out she died in 1934. Not the only example of such.)
814	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"The concept is fascinating and the illustrations are incredible and really make this book an experience to read. Unusual and wonderful. Two quotes from this book: ""In an old person, the heart muscle cells will be a mosaic: some that have been with that person from birth, and there will be new cells that have replaced others that were lost."" Dr. Jonas Frisen ""A mosaic is also the metaphor cognitive scientist Douglas Hofstadter turns to in thinking about love and the brain. In his book ""I Am A Strange Loop"", Hofstadter says that when you love someone and know them intimately, you begin to hold a mosaic portrait of that person inside your head. The better you know the person, the more finely-grained the mosaic portrait will be. Hofstadter wonders if, following his wife's death, the deep empathy between them allowed him to think with a grainy version of her brain inside his own."" "
815	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Summary: An illustrated story of Marie and Pierre Curie's life and work. It is like the cross between a graphic novel and biography.  Pros: This was a quick read, partially because I wanted to pick it up and keep reading once I had started. The pictures are great and I think they added to the feel of their story. I learned quite a bit - although not as much as I wanted - about Marie Curie's fascinating life and research. The entire book is BEAUTIFUL.  Cons: Of course, this is an illustrated biography meant for younger ages. I wanted more detail on her life and work. At times, Redniss' writing was not as engaging as it could have been. For what it is, it's a solid four stars. For an in-depth analysis of Curie, look elsewhere.  Overall: Glad I read it and would recommend it for a teenager or a quick read for an adult!
816	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book was exquisite. It looks somewhat like a graphic novel of Marie and Pierre Curie's lives and research, but it isn't, really.  It is a well-researched (with citations!) story of their love, their passion for physics, and of some of the effects of the two.  This book felt so special in my hands when I read it. The typeface, art, and photos are laid out in beautiful ways, even as they sometimes describe horrible things. I felt the author truly cared about her subject and the care showed luminously (not radioactively).  This is a book to read in the physical world. An e-edition won't be the same. I highly recommend it to people interested in physics or any kind of science writing, Marie and Pierre, or someone who appreciates art. It's that good in all genres.
817	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I'm really not sure how to rate this, so I'm going with middle of the road. As an object, it's very cool and the heart of the story, of the Curie family, is very interesting and compelling. The inclusion of how the manifold societal implications for the study of radiation add to the historical scope of the story, and why these people are still so relevant to our lives today.  Otherwise, though, it just seemed...longer than it needed to be. Perhaps, as a reader of graphic novels, I brought the wrong expectations to it. I was expecting it to go at that kind of pace and have somewhat more compelling artwork. And, it felt like it just kept going. This view may have to do with the high level of overwhelm my life was entering as I was reading this, but that's my feeling none-the-less.
818	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book wasn't entirely what I suspected. It was an un-novel. The story was draped around artwork which lent an ethereal quality to the story. Early on, this deepened the sense of wonder that early scientists had about radium. While there was plenty of information about the scientific discoveries of the Curies, the story focused on their personal lives, especially on Marie Curie after the death of Pierre. The main story was interspersed with anecdotes and historical essays on the uses of radioactive material, especially with the bomb and nuclear power such as Three Mile Island, Chernobyl and the Manhattan Project. but it would always return to the hope and optimism of the times.  Oh, and it has a glow in the dark cover. How cute is that?
819	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	It is one thing to create a notebook of assorted ideas & media to use as inspiration or as a research tool for yourself. It is another to publish it as a book & try to get people to get as excited about it as you. Radioactive is an interesting project, linking biographical material about Marie Curie's life to other stories or ideas about what the atomic bomb & radioactivity has done to our world. But there is very little substance to the material presented as Marie Curie's biography & the structure to the related stories is haphazard. For example, a mention of Marie Curie going to live with a friend after a social scandal segues into a section on fallout shelters. The book is pretty but ultimately a jumping off point for the reader's own research into the Curies or the atomic bomb. 
820	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	 I enjoy some graphic novels (like the Griffin and Sabine trilogy), so I expected to enjoy this book in a similar way (beautiful artwork, romance, intriguing story). I didn't expect to want to know so much more about Marie and Pierre Curie and their legacy. Direct quotes from the main characters make them sound almost like artists discussing their work - art and science are not so very far apart, in my opinion. This makes the subject matter perfect for the graphic novel format.  This book isn't necessarily for those wanting in-depth explanations of the Curie's work, but is a great springboard for further exploration. The fact that the book glows in the dark adds a little touch of appropriate whimsey.
821	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	On the one hand, this was a fantastic and fascinating book on the work of Marie Curie, her husband Pierre Curie, and their friends and family. The illustrations on every page were beautiful and colorful and relevant. On the other hand, this book did jump back and forth through history enough to give me whiplash. I was sometimes confused as to what time period I was reading about and who the particular page was written about. This is not to say that I didn't like the book - I did - I just think that it was a bit chronologically challenged. I would recommend it to people who are interested in science or in history, but if neither of those is of any particular fascination to you, you probably will not enjoy this book.
822	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Read this in part because it's the University of Wisconsin's ""Big Read"" book for the academic year. The graphics are a lot better than the text, which is sort of a mishmash of material relating to the Curies and radiation. I knew the story from a Classics Illustrated comic book and, give or take some detail about Marie's affair with Paul Langevin, didn't learn anything new. The radiation material doesn't stray far from what you'd expect: Hiroshima, cancer treatments, Chernobyl, Three Mile Island, the uses of nuclear power in space exploration. The tilt is slightly alarmist--proper enough in my estimation--but Redniss doesn't really process the material she incorporates.  Not bad, just didn't learn anything. The graphic elements are four star."
823	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Reading this book kind of felt like an interactive experience. The life stories of Marie and Pierre Curie are vividly told through a sort of graphic-novel method, while interspersed throughout are scientific (albeit simplified) explanations of the overall history of radioactivity and nuclear power, and how the world has come to grips with its existence. The look and feel of the book itself make it similar to a coffee table art book, because of the nature of the drawings, the use of light-sensitive ink (it glows in the dark!), and its sheer size. But it's more than that, and it's meant to be read, not just looked at. It was a very interesting book, and worthy of the accolades it's received.
824	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is a scrapbook of Marie and Pierre Curie's life and work. The book is colorfully and artistically designed by Lauren Redniss who used the process of Cyanotype printing to illustrate each chapter which give the drawings a sort of luminous glow. The book can be read in an hour or two-there's not a lot of text and the science isn't too dense. Each chapter gives a snapshot of the Curie's work and relationship and then how the discoveries they made developed into other discoveries around the world and throughout time. This book makes reading about one of the greatest female scientists of all time an illuminating and fascinating experience!
825	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	More books should be written in this style. It is a huge departure from the typical Biography. It looks like there would be nothing to it because some pages are pictures with few words.  This book does a beautiful job combining biography, science and the historical relevance of the results of Marie Curie's findings. I think that if more books were written in this style and were required to be read in high school, students who have a tough time becoming interested in such a topic would be drawn in.  I hear how we should all give our high school students e-readers but this book it large, colorful with strange font, it would not translate easily to an e-reader.
826	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A strange book. An art journal mixing love story with the history of nuclear technology, and shot through with an unnerving feeling that the Curies and their peers let loose something that was really a big mistake. Even radiation therapy is seen here as bordering on torture, and the only nuclear plants you'll hear about are Chernobyl and Three Mile Island. I do get the author's point, and I even like the morbid feel. Occasionally, she's a bit heavy handed in drawing parallels between modern nuclear issues and the Curies' personal lives. If it weren't for a few conspicuous episodes of such clunkiness, this would be 5 stars.
827	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A beautiful coffee table graphic bio guaranteed to test your knowledge and spark interesting discourse. Each day I am struck by how little I know (despite what I cavalierly may think, at times)and how much there is yet to learn. I can never die. there are too many enticing books to be read. This biography is laced with gorgeous illustrations highlighting Marie and Pierre Curie's work in physics. The author provides the THEN,their research and discoveries, and contrasts it with the NOW...outcomes and current applications. Genius comes with a high price at times and I'm left with little but admiration. 
828	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I enjoyed this book chronicling the love affair between Marie and Pierre Curie. This is an illustrated novel which provides an atypical reading experience from what I usually read. I did not find the illustrations particularly moving although you will find many critics who did. I thought the style of the artwork was not well-suited to the subject matter either. I realize this hardly sounds like a ringing endorsement. In the end, I think my main objection was the opportunity cost of reading this vs. reading a more thorough biography of Marie Curie. However, since you can read Radioactive in two days or less, I still recommend this unusual book.
829	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is so very beautiful. I loved hearing the author talk at UW about how she pushed herself to learn new things, how she chose the images that accompanied the text, and how she takes observations from everyday life and weaves it into her work. She used cyanotype prints for the images so the book is visually luminous and haunting... kind of how you'd imagine glowing radium to be. The text was pretty fascinating, combining information about Marie Curie's personal and professional life with other scientific and historical information that shows the far-reaching, amazing and really terrifying influence of her work. 
830	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was our book club book this past month. The book is as much an art book as a biography of the Curies. The art is interesting and helps illustrate some of the properties of radiation as well as events from the Curies' lives. I found it very difficult to read, and some pages I could not read at all, because of dark type on dark paper. Very odd. I know I have vision issues but even others had trouble with this. The story also bounced around a lot between the past and present. The art was good, the story did reveal the passion the Curies had for science but left out so much of their lives. It's not a book I'd recommend. I'm interested in what my physicist niece thinks of it.
831	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"this book is like none i have ever read..artistically illustrated and colorful---an adult book with drawings and colors?!!!!! and in a SCIENCE book??!!! blasphemous...loved it!! i wanted to read about marie curie as 2011 was the 100th anniversary of her SECOND nobel prize; among the ""serious"" books at the library was this gem; the personal love story was unexpected and nearly brought me to tears...serious scientists DO love too; also an empowering story young girls need to learn about---only woman at the table of men---an amazing trailbreaking woman was marie! this book tells her life as she lived...a day read but loved it...did i say i LOVED it???!!!"
832	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I liked this book, but I couldn't really get into it. Marie and Pierre are fascinating people. I really wanted to read a biography about them, which is why I started this book in the first place. But the pictures were too artsy for me and the font was difficult to read at some points. Because the book's focus was the illustrations, it didn't go into a lot of detail in the writing. I'm more curious about the details of the subjects' lives.  I didn't finish the book because it was due at the library and I wasn't into it enough to renew it. I might come back to it if I don't find a better biography about the Curies.
833	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	It's difficult to categorize this book into a single genre because it crosses so many. On one level, it's a biography of the Curies and their contemporaries, a book about their work with radioactivity. It's also an art object, beautifully illustrated with cyanotype (photosensitive prints). The writing is really clear, revealing a slice of scientific history. And on a different level, it functions as a poetic work, weaving the Curies' life and legacy together. I read the book in a single sitting; the pages flowed effortlessly. Overall, it was a story well told and executed. The cover is also glow in the dark. 
834	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The design, artwork and illustration in this book is unusual and compelling. Even the book itself glows: I was startled one night to see something glowing by my bed. It was the book. This brought back memories of a glowing calendar I had in the 1970s, and of the stories I heard about the young women workers of the United States Radium Factory in New Jersey. I learned some new things about Marie and Pierre Curie from this book, but I didn't like the way it went out of chronological order, weaving the Curies' story in and out of the events surrounding the Manhattan Project, the bombing of Japan, the Three Mile Island and Chernobyl explosions, etc.
835	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The artwork is so, so gorgeous, and a really wonderful blend of styles. But the narrative is a little bit all over the place, making the ultimate effect seem more like a notebook of stuff related to radioactivity than a love story about Maria Skłodowska and Pierre Curie. There is a sudden, jolting aside about Oppenheimer that seems to set the stage for a series of tangents. I appreciate the inclusion of maps of Chernobyl and Hiroshima, but the way it's done makes it seem like an interruption rather than an organic connection. A visual pleasure, and a really interesting book, just not _quite_ as good as I wish it was. 
836	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"I thought this was excellent. The story of Marie Curie and her husband Pierre, interspersed with the consequences of their work (nuclear testing, fall out, application).  The illustrations are sufficiently weird and varied to capture interest, and I've classed this as ""graphic novel"" (even though it isn't novel) because of the huge influence that they have on the text. Honestly, I was more interested in the drawings than the text - although given that I'm quite familiar with the subject matter (science history is an interest of mine) that may not be the same for everyone. Still, well worth reading."
837	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	quick and easy read with amazing visuals. the story and history of marie and pierre curie was quite amazing, and included a lot of unexpected drama. this book has given me a large apperception for them as scientists and as patriots. the book does a good job of combining their private lives with historical events. however by combining both elements in such a short book prevents you from being overly attached to either element because a lot of it feels rushed. I feel like the writing, for me, is a solid 3 stars, but the visuals are so aesthetically pleasing that it bumps it up to 4 stars. Overall, great story, beautiful images, not that big of an impact (on me).
838	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Interesting, haunting, and sad.  I know the subtitle includes both love and fallout, but I had hoped this was to fall harder on the love side, or at least not leave me feeling so dejected. Well done but sigh.  Bonus points for creating a book that glows (!) and developing your own typeface. ""This book is set in Eusapia LR, a typeface I created based on the title pages of manuscripts at the New York Public Library. It is named after Eusapia Palladino, the Italian Spiritualist medium whose séances the Curies attended."""
839	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"this book is super cool! i think my favorite thing about it (besides the fact it GLOWS IN THE DARK) is how it shows some of the effects of Marie Curie's work. for example, there is a bit about how the first x-ray and it includes the image (SO COOL)!! Redniss also interviewed a woman who lived through the Hiroshima bombing.  the artwork was pretty hit or miss with me. some of it left me going ""what the hell is that suppose to be?!?"" but other times it was spot-on and incredibly powerful, especially when paired with the narrative."
840	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a very beautiful book, although not all the illustrations are of the same quality--the great ones are great and some others feel a bit like filler. However, I learned MANY THINGS about the Curies, and their radioactive children, and Polonium, and the book's cover GLOWS IN THE DARK, so that's pretty awesome. Sometimes I liked the juxtaposition of the historical story with the present-day facts about how we use radioactivity in our daily lives, and sometimes it felt a bit forced. But overall this is beautiful as a story, and as an object.
841	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I got this book from my parents for for my birthday after they heard it reviewed on Science Friday. I loved it! It's not like any other book. It's a poetic meditation on the scientific and love life of Marie & Pierre Curie. Science becomes beauty, radiation becomes love, and then the a mushroom cloud. Marie's life is full of tragedy but is beautiful, and her life's work is fused with her love for Pierre. The pace of the book is slow but luxurious. Every page is illustrated and it's impossible not to linger. 
842	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was an incredibly ambitious project, but for me, it fell a little flat. I love the idea of having drawings in with the story, but I really didn't like the style of the illustrations. I found the drawings creepy (at best) and confusing (at worst). I also didn't like being jerked out of the stream of the story into the present. There were all these interjections of things from current times, or future-to-the-story times, that seemed tenuously relevant. I wanted to like this book more and found bits and pieces interesting, but it just didn't work for me.
843	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	thinking back on this book, it certainly has its brilliant bits. but reading it, i often felt frustrated. the story of Marie is spliced with stories of others who have experienced some form of radiation or irradiation. i felt the use of these other stories was abrupt and knocked me out of the main plot. i wish they had been included in a different way. the illustrations are often amazing, but i love cyanotypes (so might be biased). reading this book is definitely an experience, and i appreciate that. but, overall, there was something missing for me. 
844	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The story of Marie Curie, Pierre and Paul tangled up in love and scientific exploration could never be told more brilliantly. Not only are the visuals stunning but the text, photographs and other illustrations of scientific data create a work of art unlike any other. What begins as a book about two individuals loving, learning and working together develops into a story about humanity and scientific progress. From Part I of the book where Pierre Curie studied crystals, the book ends on a far-reaching note discussing the possibility of a crystal city on the Moon. 
845	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"An incredible graphic biography of the Curies. The text is dense with the history and connections between their scientific advancements and the implications/impact on the future (radiation treatment, uh...the Atom bomb...). The art is stunning - the chapter division pages almost ""glow"" and the use of the light text on dark background gives the impression of an X-ray. The drawings, while not horribly sophisticated, are intriguing - the hands in particular were fascinating to me. Really a worthwhile read."
846	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is a National Book Award nominee in the nonfiction category. And for good reason! It is a wonderful read...factual, imaginative and engaging. It is not a typical book, as the text is accompanied by artistic renderings of scene. The book focuses on the life and accomplishments of Marie and Pierre Curie, but also includes lots of information about radioactivity and its larger implications in science and society. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in science, biographies or graphic novels...it has a little bit of all three!
847	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"I was intrigued by this book when it was described as a graphich novel. One of the reviews on the back by Richard Rhodes says ""Absolutely dazzling. Radioactive is both vibrant history and a work of art. Like radium itself, it glows with energy."" I do not profess to understand but very little when reading the scientific part of the book, but Lauren Redniss made the entire book interesting, from her choice of typeface, her use of cyanotype printing, to making much of this book a love story. The book cover glows in the dark for heaven's sake, who wouldn't want to read a book that does that!"
848	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"This book is like no-other that I have read. To say that it is ""illustrated"" would not do it justice. Each and every page is a work of art. And the author has even made use of a special printing process that brings out the radioactivity in the Curies lives. It is a short book that chronicles the history of the Curies and their offspring. Most of the stories are in the form of quotes that are contained in a page or two. After reading this, you will have a deeper appreciation of the impact that the Curies discovery have had on our lives and will get to know them a little better. "
849	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	  Reading Radioactive felt a little bit like poking through an artist's personal notebooks, the way words and images flow in and around each other. The art is beautiful to look at, but what was most remarkable to me was the way it harmonized with the story being told and elevated the narrative to something more intimate. There's also a lot of great asides about the science and the history surrounding the Curies and the far reaching effects of their research. A great book, recommended for lovers of art, science, history and good stories.
850	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book was phenomenal. Redniss takes a kind of solipsistic biography of the Curies and their research, inserting anecdotes related to the effects of their work, windows into their personal lives, and scientific data that explains their work. Her art is ethereal and evocative; the way I described this to my friends was like an adult's picture book, as engrossing and unique as the kid's version.  Highly recommended. Difficult to get ahold of at the library--I had to wait almost two months to read it due to popularity!
851	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"""Radioactive"" sometimes gets called a graphic novel, but I think it defies a lot of categorization. It's sort of art & words & history & love & science all wrapped up together in a way that happens to look like a book & is strangely captivating. The book forces you to read it slowly, but I couldn't put it down. Also, the cover glows in the dark.  Some of the science is not explained, so if you're a hard-core science geek, this might not be for you. But if you take the story for what it is, you could have a quite enjoyable time with ""Radioactive."""
852	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I've never read any book quite like this one - a powerful and sentimental biography of Marie Curie told through the medium of graphic novel. It's a well-researched labor of love with many citations to primary sources. On the other hand, it almost doesn't matter if some of the historical facts may be inaccurate - the author does a superb job of relating to the reader the spirit of Madame Curie's life and the zeitgeist of the scientific community. Also importantly - it's (nearly) a one-sitting read! Highly recommended.
853	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I was surprised by how much I enjoyed the intertwining of art with non-fiction in a book format. I wouldn't really call this a graphic novel...more like aesthetically pleasing, historically relevant story-telling. I took this marvel in via eBook format on an iPad retina display, and it was beautiful. Though I think I would recommend getting this in the tangible book form because it would make a great coffee table book (and it glows in the dark!).  This is a wonderful summary of the private and professional lives of the Curies. Not a lot of dating outside of social circles going on there...
854	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	An unusual and creative way of telling the story of Marie Curie's life and work, along with the science of radioactivity. Redniss is both a writer and an accomplished contemporary artist, and in this graphic biography she uses words and images to describe the positive and negative effects of the Curies' work on our lives. This book is going to be featured as an all-city read soon, and it will be interesting to hear the reactions from the artistic, literary and scientific communities.  PS Apparently the cover glows in the dark. I hadn't noticed!
855	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Brilliant. Luminous. Smart. Beautiful. Sad. All of these things, and more. What a fabulous retelling of the Curie love story (stories,plural, for there are generations here). And what a clever, lovely lens through which to view the history of radioactivity. I read this book in one setting, deeply drawn into the world Redniss created. Her art and text both are magical. If I could, I would give a copy of this wonderful book to everyone I know. The best surprise was when I finished the book and turned out the light, the cover and spine actually glowed. Radioactive, indeed.
856	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I wish I could give this book a tenth of a star. I really doesn't warrant a full star. I hoped for an updated biography of the Curies. They did some of the important research in nuclear physics of the Twentieth Century. There needs to be more researched biographies of them.  This is not one of them. It is a picture book. A rambling, superficial tale of the Curies life, the making of the atomic boom, FBI intrigue, Russian politics...and on and on.  Don't waste your time on this book. You will learn more about the authors drawing technology than the Curies.
857	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"AMAZING. It's like someone went into my brain and was like ""what would you like to read about?"" and I was like ""this"" and they were like, ""okay, here's the book."" It talks about Curie - whom, I will admit, I know very little about, and apparently, repeatedly watching Young Einstein will not help me with (even if it's a great film), but it also talks about events and history related to radioactivity - so, the Bomb, Three Mile Island, Chernobyl, all sorts of things I do know about. The art work is awesome, kind of reminds me in some ways of Maira Kalman. GREAT book."
858	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Didn't think I would take to this one but I loved loved it. Really enjoyed the artistic but harrowing juxtapositions between Marie's life and what her research contributed later. It gives so much story in a narrative, palatable way. The drawings and composition of each page really elaborate and enhance the story without ever distracting, which is an exception for most graphic novel experiences for me. There was so much to think about and take in and left the tone of the real science story open ended. I wish I could think of a read alike for myself because I want more!
859	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A beautifully illustrated story about Marie Curie, the love of her life (Pierre), and the 'radioactive' family and legacy she created. Her life (and the people around her) still reverberates with us today. She endangered her life to give humanity a greater understanding of elements that she not only discovered but, with the help of her husband, and family, also helped understand and utilise for the betterment of all our lives.  INTERESTING FACT: Brazil nuts are the most naturally radioactive food.
860	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I read this for my book club - it's a book I wouldn't have found on my own, so am glad someone found it for me.  I was a bit dubious aout the format, but found it had a somewhat hypnotic effect on me.  I liked how Redniss covered the story of the Curies, and interspersed it with the legacy of their work, though I at times found the chronological mishmash disorienting.  I wonder how long the book would have been with a normal font without the pictures and asides. Ot is that not the point?   
861	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Oh my goodness, what an absolutely gorgeous book. The love story is so well told and the art is so evocative and emotional. Anyone who is touting the death of print publishing would be quieted by this beautiful creation. Not only is it the thrilling story of the Curie's discoveries but it is almost ""hyperlinked"" in a way to what happened through the last 100 years afterwards. To add to the cool factor, the cover glows in the dark so it can double as a night light! Can't wait to read her other creations!"
862	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"At first glance, this looks like a child's picture-book biography. It is, in fact, an artistic and unique take on the often-mythologized Curie family and their accomplishments. While Redniss's book contains less scientific detail than other accounts (such as Barbara Goldsmith's ""Obsessive Genius""), she nevertheless manages to convey the historical weight, intellectual depth, and romantic wonder of Marie Curie's remarkable career. I'd recommend it to students of art and science with equal fervor."
863	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	As we said here: http://www.5cense.com/14/354.htm «We wanted to like this book ... Marie Curie is our hero & graphic text/image novelizations always sound good at least in theory. But in the end it just sort of felt, i dunno, cheesy. Like a children's or 'YA' book ... trying to explain radioactivity without souding lecturey while simultaneously telling the love story between Marie & Pierre Curie all the while showing you pretty little pictures & making it all artsy-fartsy. But it was a finalist for the National Book Award, so obviously people are saps for these sorts of things.»
864	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book did well what a non-fiction graphic novel should do: create rich visual and emotional context in a way that isn't available to an author who is writing alone. I also thought the technique used to produce the book was really unique. There was a really nice interplay of the science as the Curies worked, the application of their scientific discoveries since and fascinating aspects of their personal lives. The only criticism I'd have is that sometimes the text is too small or not in sufficient contrast to the page.
865	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Gorgeous illustrations bring to life the story of Marie and Pierre Curie, their study of radium and polonium, and its far reaching effects. I was awed by the beauty of their early research, moved by their devotion to one another and to their work, saddened by the devastation wrought by the presence of radium in the atomic bombs, the disaster at Chernobyl, and its effects on Pierre and Marie, and intrigued by the possible uses for radium, polonium, and strontium in current and future space exploration. 
866	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I really liked this book overall. The art was minimalist but evocative. The scientific information combined with the love stories and history worked well but, once in a while, the more modern asides seemed a little disjointed in their placement. I loved the part about the radiation from the nuclear tests from the 40s through the 60s still being found in the hearts of people around the world and how it has been used to prove that hearts can, in fact, mend themselves by growing anew. Marie and Pierre would approve.
867	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Plus: I learned some new information about the Marie and Pierre which was exciting.  I really liked how Marie's and Pierre's stories were told on facing pages until they met--then their story was told together  Minus: While I really liked the modern-day applications of their work stuck here and there (nuclear disasters, Manhattan Project...), I found it a little bit difficult to follow since the storyline wasn't as chronological this way.  Good read for adults, I wouldn't recommend it for kids.
868	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is different than anything you've ever experienced from a book.  It's non-fiction. It's partly the story of Marie Curie and her kin and part history of nuclear elements, and as a result, all that the discover of those elements has lead to- including nuclear war.  It's both very factual, and very emotional and raw. The artwork in this book is psychedelic, haunting and radiant.  On my surprise after going to bed the second night of reading i discovered that the cover of this book GLOWS IN THE DARK.  100% would recommend
869	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I read this book in two sittings; I could've finished it in one. Lauren Redniss knows how to pick out the really interesting and humanizing facts about the lives of the scientists in these books. One thing I didn't like, though, is that she jumped around a lot on the timeline, which confused me a few times. But, through it all, you get a feel for the way events like scientific discoveries can have major impacts on the course of history. Even tiny things. And, in the story, the people's lives are so intertwined that it almost seems like something you'd read in a work of fiction.
870	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	An interesting and artful look at the life of Marie Curie, her work, and her legacy. From the heat of radiation to the heat of romance, this is a multifaceted look at her life, the times she lived in, and the effects she had on the world. The art was abstract and the design places it somewhere between illustrated book and graphic novel; probably closer to the former. My only reservation is that the design makes it a little hard to read in spots. Nonetheless, anyone with an interest in science, and Marie and Pierre's work in particular should check it out. 
871	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A beautiful and interesting book; obviously a work of love by the artist/author. I enjoyed the experience of looking/reading/dreaming this book. The illustrations are mostly cyanotypes(of keen interest to this one-time photo student) and they lend a eerie glow to the images of Marie and Pierre Curie and their work.  Btw: The cover of the hardback copy that I read is glow-in-the-dark, which thrilled my 4-year-old, and me, to no end.
872	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"So Great. This book is amazing. I found it both informative & heartfelt & beautiful & unique. It's a factual account of Marie & Pierre Curie and their lives, work and love (+ a lot of other tangentially related stuff). So different from anything else I have read. A graphic ""novel"" unlike any other I have read. The art is lovely. If you are at all intrigued, read it. You will be glad that you did."
873	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Interesting book. I think it's really a children's picture book for older children. It's illustrated colorfully and has the cadence of a child's book. It's a nice summary of Marie's life and work. I found it very interesting and full of details I didn't know about her life. The art work is pretty and must make the science go down easier for those who don't care for it. I would like to read a fuller biography of Marie and Pierre now.
874	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I’d heard amazing reviews of this book. It’s an eclectic mix of biography/story/fact book based on the lives of Pierre and Marie Curie. For a book about love, I found it strangely cool and aloof. Haunting too of course. A book about the science behind radioactive substances can’t help but raise questions about the balance of good/harm. I felt on the whole though that in attempting to be both a factual book and an art project, it failed. But it is definitely an interesting book.
875	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A piece of art in the form of a historical short novelette... It was beautiful and such a fast read. I never realized before what an interesting and controversial life Marie Curie led. I didn't know she was such a complex woman and yet the novel still made her seem relatable even though it was so brief and succinct. Beyond that, I thought it was also a very entertaining and educational read about radioactivity. Definitely not your kid's bedtime story! Amazing!
876	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	It is hard to explain the beauty of this unusual book, without seeing it. I chanced upon it at the Unity bookshop here in Wellington, and then went and searched it out in the library catalogue. It tells the story of Marie and Pierre Curie, their work and life together. The star of the show though is the lovely handwritten typography and original illustrations, part graphic novel, that somehow makes the blend of romantic story and physics work together harmoniously.    4/5  
877	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A couple of thoughts. 1. More adult works of nonfiction should be like gorgeous picture books. This isn't really a graphic novel... it's not told through the pictures, but every page has illustrations.  2. The narrative does jump around a lot, from the chronological events of the Curie family's life to the things that their discoveries went on to make possible, but I wasn't put off by it. I kept wondering if I was, but I kept deciding that I wasn't.
878	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Redniss brings me back to Marie's private life and forth to the effects of radioactive elements. Some famous scientists and those who were involved in the Manhattan Project were briefly mentioned. I am surprised how Redniss managed to arrange all stories of the applications of the radioactive elements into a book, a graphical one! On the art side, pay attention the choice of color and printing. It has a small connection with the title of the book! 
879	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a luminous book, and I use that word very deliberately. It interweaves the biography of Marie Curie with the development of the technologies that her work made possible, such as nuclear medicine, atomic power, and of course the atomic bomb. The book is illustrated throughout with cyanotype printing. Each page glows like the radium that Curie is so famous for studying. A suprising and moving read.
880	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What a unique and beautiful book. I loved the convergence of art & science, creation & destruction, the personal & the universal and the human & that which destroys humanity. It was clear that the author put her heart and soul into this book/art piece. It's not at all what you expect in a book... and is wonderful because of it. I love the glowing spirit of this book, which will maintain a long half-life!
881	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was a much better book than I thought it would be. This came across my desk from a couple of different sources (Brain Pickings weekly email was one) so it piqued my interest. Described as a wonderfully illustrated children's book on Marie Curie I decided to check it out. This is more for pre-teens and teens. Personally I found this really enjoyable. There was a lot of interesting collateral information.
882	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This graphic book brings the story of Marie and Pierre Curie more alive than any text-only science history book can do. There's a great movie waiting to be made about their story. Highly recommended for anyone, but especially for children/young adults interested in science. Great scientists who advance the frontiers of human knowledge at personal cost are far more noble, heroic and admirable than shallow celebrities and athletes.
883	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"""Radioactive"" really stands out. It's a beautiful book- physically and storywise.  Part history lesson and part love story, readers will enjoy reading the diary entries, letters, interviews, and other artifacts collected from primary sources. The story of the Curies is incredible and heartbreaking, full of triumphs and sadness. And then there's the art element.  Everything about this book just glowed, positively brilliant!"
884	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is one of those beautiful art books where you just want to hold it, and turning the page is a thrill. The narrative around the Curies' exploration of radioactivity is poetic and engaging, though I didn't get into the more contemporary passages about nuclear fallout, with pasted-in documents and photographs instead of collaged cyanotypes.  It's uneven, but it pushes what a book is and can do. And what's better than that?
885	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	If you like books - read this. I loved loved loved this book. I bought it as a gift and ended up keeping it. It glows in the dark, which is so perfect for this story and it is what convinced me to keep the book. I read it in one sitting on a gloomy dark day and the glow coming from it was so unexpected! It is also beautifully illustrated. I did buy another copy to give away as a gift. Combining art and science is a passion of mine and this book does it beautifully. 
886	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Bold, glowing, choice for 2012 UW-Go Big Read (book literally glows in the dark). This is a gorgeous book. GORGEOUS. Interwoven in the story of Marie and Pierre Curie are the details of their scientific discoveries of radium and polonium and the ramifications and aftermath. Especially striking were the segments from the FBI file on one of the scientists working on the A-Bomb and from a survivor of Hiroshima.
887	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Beautiful, ethereal, and haunting. Redniss' cyanotype illustrations glow with a radioactive illumination so fitting for this book, and, AND, she made a custom typeface for this book too! Ahhh... lovely. We live, we love, we create, we invent, we discover, we destroy. The subtitle for this book says it all ""A tale of love and fallout."" Marie & Pierre Curie gave us so much of themselves, and the legacy of their work has been both miraculous and devastating."
888	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"I was in love with the title and cover art of this book. It actually glows in the dark! Though I never realized it before, of course a book titled ""Radioactive"" should glow in the dark. I never knew much about Marie Curie, and I found her story very interesting. I don't really read graphic novels. I found it distracting at first, but after a while I decided I loved it. The design of each page really added to the story in the same way the illustrations in a good picture book do. "
889	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	While I enjoyed reading about the life and work of Marie & Pierre Curie, I have to say, I would have preferred a more traditional narrative that delved into further detail. I found a lot of areas of their lives I would have loved to know more about that weren't able to be fleshed out. That said, the format of the book was interesting and easy to read and some of the illustrations and photographs were interesting - and I was able to finish it easily in 3 nights.
890	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Radioactive is unlike any other book that I have ever read. In it's innovative presentation as a hardback and A4 size it already grabs your interest before you open the book.The unusual font and the cyanotype printing make this book a piece of artwork as well as presenting a factual history of the discovery of radioactivity.The story of devotion and passion of Marie Curie and Pierre Curie to their cause and to each other is outstanding, the presentation, outstanding! 
891	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The art work was beautiful and engaging. I felt the information about radiation and its positive and negative effects were weighted pretty strongly towards the negative. Marie Curie's works were portrayed so beautifully, yet it feels like the author ultimately disapproved of the result. I really wish it held the neutral tone later in the book; it made this work a lot less a work about curiosity, and too much about preaching. 
892	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Neat. Hard to describe. A collection of stories about the Curies and their relations and events of their time. Everything is related, but little fits into a neat box. Different stories are laid out in different styles. The art changes, design space varies. It all adds up to a visually interesting, constantly changing narrative that in some way seems more a real description of Marie and Pierre then any text or pictures on their own could accomplish.
893	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Thanks, Dalia, for this interesting graphic novel. Marie Curie is one of those people that I thought I knew something about, but really didn't. So a quick history lesson was great. And the interesting thing about the graphic novel format is that Redniss could easily weave in other stories of radioactivity's effects since it's discovery by the Curies. And she did an interesting job of making x-ray-looking graphics to go along with the story. 
894	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	 I really enjoyed this book. A large graphic novel. I'm not sure if I liked the artwork or the story more. Both were haunting and enjoyable. Although I didn't understand all of the information on radioactivity, I feel that I learned alot. I was startled by seeing the book lying around at night. It glows in the dark and that is part of the thrill of the book. I'm so glad I read it and plan on rereading it.
895	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	AN interesting read, it was fun to talk about this book in book club. We examined the writing, the way it was written as well as comparing it to her drawings and other additions. We discussed the art as it went along with the story, the ironies and the flow of words. It was a nice change to read and as we talked and flipped the pages, we found more to talk about. To read it, it's short, but you'll want time to savor every nuance. 
896	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Lyrical, highly unusual and quite beautiful graphic novel that retells the story of Marie and Pierre Curie. It entwines ruminations about their personal lives, their scientific discoveries and the nature of the times in which they lived, while reminding us of the (frequently sobering) impact of their work on world history. While the narrative can be quite disjointed, the artwork (literally) shines forth from the pages.
897	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"It's everything I want in a book: love, science, death, art... and it glows in the dark! This ""graphic novel"" (not sure what to call it) is inspirational on multiple levels. I love the risks that Redniss takes as a writer, making slight shifts in genre and focus while still managing to tie it all together thoughtfully and with power. In some ways, this book reminds me of my favorite: Maira Kalman. Highly recommend!"
898	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was a fascinating book to me. I think it would be a great intro into Madame Curie for homeschooled children. The illustrations were fantastic. There were some aspects that it almost felt that the author came in with an agenda against Mdme. Curie's findings and future implications of it, but, normally not being one for graphic novels, I looked past what I didn't like about the book because I couldn't put it down.  BTW..did I mention that the book glows in the dark? Simply ingenious!
899	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Radioactive: A Tale of Love and Fallout by Lauren Redniss 8/10  This graphic novel at first impression looks like a design art project, which it is, but upon reading it you will also find the incredible story of Marie and Pierre Curie from their great discoveries in physics to their romance with glimpses at their sprawling legacy weaved throughout. The book manages the story and design well, sacrificing neither one for the other and excitedly pulls the reader along. Highly recommended.  
900	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"I would definitely call this more of an ""art book"" than a graphic novel. I find Marie Curie interesting so I'm glad I learned more about her private life. She was an extraordinary woman and it was interesting to see the benefits and the destruction that her life worked caused. I got some Yves Klein, Rothko, and Chagall vibes from the illustrations. The content seems a bit ""high-brow"" and maybe not accessible for everyone.  Side note: This book glows in the dark."
901	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book glows in the dark and is full of nice details. The font is special, the illustrations are done in a way that echoes xrays. The narrative isn't just about the Curies, but also about their descendants, as well as modern events that have some correlation to their scientific discoveries. Great book for any hoping to dig deeper into their lives and understand the interconnectedness of everything. I was amazed at what technology we WOULDN'T have without them!
902	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I found the layout and the lack of contrast between the text and the image on the page to make the book hard to read. The content was interesting by combining the Curie discoveries with what later scientists, etc. have done with the information.  I've seen radioactive glassware mentioned on PBS and travel programs. Interesting what people would do with radioactive material before it was better understood, i.e. www3.epa.gov/radtown/antiques.html
903	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A vivid, odd and encompassing look at Marie Curie and her life and work. Per usual I am not super interested in the romance side of things, but it did round out the portrait of Marie. Had no idea how incredibly prolific and amazing she was intellectually and romantically. This graphic novel intersperses the story of Marie with vignettes about the modern incarnations of her and Pierre's work. Truly fascinating and humbling.
904	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Gorgeous art and a fascinating story about Marie and Pierre Curie. I admire how the author was able to sift through the details of their lives to pick out those most crucial for the story being told. I was also impressed by why the artist's explanations of why the specific style was chosen, down to the font. All in all, a gorgeous book that manages to make science seem dreamy and romantic, yet urgent and bold. 
905	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Cool premise, nice art, but one huge, glaring typo that I can't even understand how any copy editor anywhere anytime could have missed. It's so bad I wonder if maybe it was on purpose and I just misunderstood that page. Also, I learned a lot about great Polish achievers. A short but illustrious list. 
906	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"The size and cover art of this volume speaks ""grade school book"" to me. The content was a completely different, if as equally enjoyable, experience. I learned some new things and shook my head or shuddered over other things. I thought the unusual art and layout were enjoyable and worked with the content."
907	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Holy crap this book is amazing. The words themselves often striking in their emotional weight, their poetry - and so often these words are direct quotes from Marie. And, the book is fregin beautiful, seriously seriously beautiful. My latent interest/fascination with Marie Curie = rekindled. Thanks, bro, for putting this book in my hands.
908	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Absolutely brilliant! Great artwork, great (albeit brief) bio on the Curies. Reads like a bio for kids, but a heady kid. I hadn't realized their daughter also won a Nobel Prize...jeez, what a bunch of badasses. Interesting science deviations interspersed with the bio, contemporary science and extrapolations of the original research/findings. Great, great book. Would make an awesome gift.
909	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Gorgeously written and beautifully created to be a new medium! As the book's content is part love story part scientific/historical biography, the book itself is part novel part artwork - like nothing I've yet to read. Thoroughly enjoyed the story of Marie & Pierre Curie's romance and scientific accomplishments.
910	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The New York Public Library currently has an exhibit on this book; the author researched the book at the library. I was captivated by the mixture of biography, art, and science, so I picked it up. The cover glows in the dark. I'm hoping that it is suitable for sharing with my son, who has an interest in a science career. 
911	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is an amazing blend of art and biography. I have always been fascinate by Marie Curie and this gave me a full picture of her life, her discoveries, and their legacy. The delicate style of the line drawing in the sun print images contributes a dreamy feel to the diary recollections, news reportage, and other historical source materials for this compelling story.
912	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I saw this book on display at the library in New York City when I was there in March. Checked it out from the library and enjoyed it a lot. The book, in and of itself, is quite artisticly laid out. Between that and the romance and the life of generations of Curies, it's very good. I recommend it. Also, it's a VERY quick read.
913	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Not what I thought at all. While the pictures are lovely from an artistic perspective, the story is wanting. The print is hard to read at times and the author feels the need to slip in commentary about nuclear warfare and power. While the two are related to Curie, but not to the relationship between the two main character. 
914	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Very enjoyable biography with very interesting artwork. One thing I really liked was the intermixing of stories about scientific and technological advances that have resulted from the Curie's work.  Funny story - I went downstairs late at night to get a glass of water and was quite startled to see something glowing on the couch in the family room. Turns out that Radioactive glows in the dark.
915	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"fantastic science, art, and humanity mix  truly nerdvana, from a typeface (""Eusapia LR"") created for the book to the emission spectra of Radium and Polonium, this was a fantastic intellectual joy-ride through the life of Marie & Pierre and the global fallout of the scientific discoveries (and personal lives)  I loved it"
916	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	My pen pal Kathryn sent me this book since I've been working on the all hand-drawn INtangible blog. The text in this is also entirely hand-rendered. The cover is glow-in-the-dark too. The illustrations and colorations aren't really my style, but they are very engaging and work well with the story of the Curies' lives. 
917	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Redniss, bless her, is one of a kind. She has a poet's talent of weaving together seemingly unrelated facts. And the fact that the cover is glow-in-the-dark = bonus points.  The interior illustrations are fantastic and fit the material well. They even made me feel a little sick, as if they were radioactive.
918	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I really enjoyed this book, it was a very fast read and did a wonderful job of keeping me interested in the text while intrigued by the art. I've always been captivated by the Curie family, brilliant people with a dedication to their fields (mostly radiation related). It's also pretty cool when the book glows in the dark. I would definitely recommend this.
919	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The book actually glows, literally. The art is different and beautiful, as is the story of the Curies. Marie and Pierre were brilliant in their science and work. This is a beautiful story of their love, the scandal they endured, their family, and their work. Redniss's biography is unusual and brilliant, never boring.
920	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	An illustrated novel that chronicles the life of Marie Curie. Her life was anything but ordinary--full of academic and scientific achievements with world-changing consequences, and a series of heart-wrenching personal losses. A trailblazer for women, and a hero for science, I'm glad I know more about her. 
921	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What a beautiful book: beautifully written, beautifully illustrated, beautifully designed. It is equal parts history, science, and love story and has inspired a new goodreads shelf: the physicality of the book, the heavy stock pages, the glow-in-the-dark cover all make this a better read in the real world as opposed to the eworld.
922	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is almost indescribable, both in form (It's kind of a graphic novel, but not quite.) and story structure. (Marie's love life and parental legacy is interspersed with facts and the realities of radium and polonium.) In the end, I was inspired by both Marie Curie and the creativity of the artist/ author Lauren Redniss. Easily the most interesting book I picked up in a long while.
923	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This beautiful illustrations in this book really enhanced my reading experience. The story of Marie Curie is the story of trailblazer. The book captures that by showing how her and Pierre's work was used, built upon and manipulated over the years and continues to be today. After long days of teaching and school work this book provided relief with its beautiful images. 
924	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I have never read anything like this. It is a love story, a history of science, and a world history book. It ties the work of early physicists to past events, current events, and future events such as space travel. The artwork is simple and beautiful and fully illustrates the words on each page. To my science teacher friends: this needs to be on a reading list for students! 
925	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The art is beautiful, but the narrative's tendency to jump abruptly from the subject of the Curies to general info about radioactivity is...not good. Because there are no segues--one paragraph is biography, the next, on the same page, will be talking about Chernobyl. It's choppy and disorienting, and really brings it down. It's a good piece of art, but not a great book.
926	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Absolutely beautiful and haunting book. It combines science, history, and biography with beautiful illustrations, layout, and typography. Marie Curie's story is interwoven with stories both good and bad about the effects of the discovery of radioactive materials. I am still thinking about what I think it all means and the take away message.
927	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	The recommendation for this book that I encountered could not stop gushing about the illustrations in this book. The illustrations were unique and powerful. But I couldn't get past the eerie tone of the book. Maybe the story about a brilliant scientist who discovered a powerful new substance and unwittingly killed herself has to be eerie, but I just didn't love it. 
928	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Gorgeous and strange, this was a super beautiful look at two fascinating and world-changing people. In a book that was both moody and intelligent, Lauren Redniss reconciled the personal facts of their lives with their scientific explorations. With visuals both weird and wonderful, this was a feast for the eye, the mind and the heart.          .
929	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Absolutely the most gorgeous science book...glowing luminously to depict the characteristics if radium and radioactivity, books like thus is one reason why an individual should by paper back it hard cover books, something's like the beauty of radioactivity can't truly be observed on an e-book, plus the story if Marie currie so fascinating truly an amazing scientist.
930	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A graphic biography of Marie Curie, using art to illustrate the triumphs and tragedies of her life. There are also digressions into the effects of nuclear weapons, nuclear plant accidents, and the industrial use of radioactive materials. The cover glows in the dark (by photoluminescence), which is cool.
931	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I enjoyed this story of Marie Curie's life and history of radioactivity. At first the illustrations and jump around style of writing was distracting. On one page you're reading about Marie's life, while the next will cover a modern day application of something Marie worked on. Once I got used to this style I was fine with it. An interesting read.
932	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Graphic novel meets biography in this exploration of the life of Marie Curie. In high school, I researched Marie Curie for a school project, so there was not much new information for me in this book. However, the format was interesting and I liked how primary sources, like a photo of the first x-ray, or quotes from Marie and Pierre Curie's journals were included. 
933	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Loved it. The pages have a folk-art feel and the story borrows heavily from long quotations from the people themselves. Some of the sidebar pages that cover fallout (HARHARhar) from the Curie's discoveries don't always pay off, but the author does a great job of showing a little of the extent to which this extraordinary woman helped invent the modern world. 
934	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This was definitely creative and interesting. There were many interesting tidbits in it, the design of the book was very creative and making the cover glow in the dark was brilliant. I was just confused when short excerpts of other stories were plopped in between the story of the Curies. Rather confusing at times.
935	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This graphic novel is beautifully illustrated with sunprints that are then hand colored. Wonderful that UV rays from the sun illuminate this book. What is also wonderful is that Redniss tells of the alive, passionate, haunting story of Marie and her husband and the next generations of Curies. Included in the beautiful book: love, magnetism and heat, duels, radiation poisoning, fusion!
936	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	As reviewers have noted, Radioactive defies simple categorization. The book is a graphic novel, a biography of Marie and Pierre Curie, a history of radioactivity research, a work of art, and a labor of wonder. The author’s fascination for her subject is obvious, and permeates each page with glowing energy.
937	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	One of the most beautiful books I've ever read. It's as much art and science as it is literature. The author tells the story of Marie and Pierre Curie and their discovery of radium, interspersed with bits of the science and history involved, with every page being covered with beautiful art and colors. A true joy to read and to look at.
938	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Delightful to read and even more fun to ""interpret"", Radioactive is an uncharacteristic biography that ingeniously weaves documents, quotes, maps, and personal accounts into a fluid, thought-provoking narrative. It is a scrapbook of sorts that reaffirms the Curies magical place in history as well as the magical power and promise of atomic energy, sex, and love. "
939	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I never would have read this graphic novel had it not been for my book club, but I learned so much more about Marie and Pierre Curie which made them seem more like real people and less like distant historical figures in science. Very interesting mix of personal details and professional accomplishments, unique art, and pages that glow in the dark!
940	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Gorgeous graphic / picture book explains the scientific and personal journeys of Marie Curie and her husband. Wiry line-drawn portraits, washes of color, mixed media, and hand-lettered text give their stories an intimate feel. Super complex science concepts are explained poetically in ways even I, the scientifically-challenged, could absorb. 
941	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Radioactive is a marvelous combination of science and art. The story is captivating and the chemistry intriguing. I'd recommend it for anyone that is ""science minded"" with an interest in incorporating beauty into their work. Also, Marie Curie is a bad-ass and an awesome role model for women. This is a book I will read again. "
942	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"A graphic telling of the lives of Marie and Pierre Curie, interspersed with ""fun facts"" and graphics about the impact of their discoveries. A quick read, and nothing in it (apart from the fun facts) that isn't to be found in any of the well-written biographies of Marie Curie that abound out there. But sorta fun to read because of the graphic nature of the narrative and the fun facts. "
943	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"A wonderful book. A combination of original art and text set in a font designed by the author. It tells the personal and scientific story of the Curies. It also covers the use of radioactive materials in war and daily life, including the resulting effects on health. My book club discussed this book and we all loved it. It would be a great first ""graphic novel"" to read."
944	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A lovely and well-produced book (it glows in the dark!). The third of the Stanford Three Books that I read. I love the dark Prussian blue of the chapter pages--simply gorgeous. Some of the illustrations were beautiful, others just eh, but the overall effect was stunning. I particularly liked the excerpts from Marie Curie's writings. Extraordinary.
945	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	In 1891, Marie Sklodowska moved to Paris, where she worked in the laboratory of Pierre Curie. They expanded the periodic table, discovering two new elements with startling properties, radium and polonium. They recognized radioactivity as an atomic property, heralding the dawn of a new scientific era. They won the Nobel Prize. The facts are so boring, it dulls the character of the book.
946	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	What a beautiful story and book! Now I'll wish all non fiction histories were illustrative, like this one, because it was such a treat. Redniss weaves a captivating story of the Curie's and radioactivity into a lovely cyanotype design with her very own font. This book has it all: creative typography, unique drawings, and an unforgettable story!
947	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I'm so glad I heard of this book, bought it, and read it. It's a picture book for grown-ups. I learned some, thought some, marveled at the beauty of the illustrations. A very enjoyable experience, and while it is not as comprehensive as a typical biography, nor as instructive as many popular science books, the creativity in the way Redniss put it all together really worked for me. It's a keeper.
948	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A stunning and unique story of the Curies and the science of radioactivity told mostly through paintings, photographs, diary entries, and anecdotal stories. It's quick to read as it's not heavy on text, but should be savored for the aesthetics. I've never read a book about science that was presented this way. Refreshing, lovely, and sad.
949	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Perhaps not the most academic Curie biography, this is more like, the perfect coffee table book for your favorite engineer or physicist. It is awesome for what it is - a graphic novel about the Curies and the fallout of discovering radiation - but it is not quite a great graphic novel or biography. 
950	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I never tire of rereading this book. It's beautiful illustrations, layout, and fascinating storytelling of the Curies' lives and legacy is compelling and awe-inspiring. Lauren Redniss created a work that is both dreamy and dreary, intimate and global, by telling a story of passion and science: by telling the story of Marie and Pierre Curie.
951	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I completely appreciated this creative format and wide subject range while wishing the story itself was a little tighter. Somehow it was both amazing but compel me to finish it quickly. Try it though.... And the cover glows in the dark!! Keeping this at 3 stars for now but it could easily be far higher than that for surprises. 
952	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Without a doubt one of the best books that I have read within a year. Ingeniously explained and creatively illustrated this book really gives you more of a glimpse into Marie Curie's life then Pierre but it is a history lesson that you want to read and won't forget. I ordered Lauren Redniss's new book ""Thunder and Lightning"" before I even finished this."
953	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Very much enjoyed the history of Marie and Pierre, their exciting research and the health problems they caused for themselves. I didn't realize they spawned two generations of major scientists. The breaks in the historical narrative for stories of nuclear fallout and such didn't do much for me. Interesting illustrations and the typeface the author created for the book was excellent.
954	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Love this! Very interesting with the art and the inclusion of the source materials. Didn't know about much about her. Connect to women in science. War. Love and art and France. Definitely recommend to all chemistry teachers well all science teachers. Beautiful book! I'd like my own copy in my classroom.
955	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is really beautiful and clever in how it weaves together the life and love stories of the Curies and the life and love stories of the western world and radiation. This book definitely gave me new ideas for how to work with the stories and research that I want to tell, and I would recommend this book for anybody interested in form hybridity.
956	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"The art in RADIOACTIVE is absolutely wonderful--created as hand-colored cyanotypes--and the story of Curie is captivating. Unfortunately, though, I was annoyed by the narrative structure in which paragraphs about the ""future"" would be, seemingly haphazardly, dropped into the middle of the text. Nonetheless, I would highly reckoned RADIOACTIVE to lovers of the cyanotype, history, and science."
957	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"How do you categorize a work that is graphic but not fiction - that is visual but not a comic? I wonder what label to use when ""graphic novel"" and ""comic book"" are both totally inappropriate but the visual elements and the text are essential to the work? Labels are so limiting. Some books are works of art. This is one of them. "
958	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A wonderful biography of not only Marie, but also of radon and radiation. As informative as this book is, it is equaled by its art. Gorgeous. I was delighted to flip through its pages. The art also further informs the storytelling. A+. I'm glad that I bought my copy so I could go through it again and again. 
959	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	3.5☆  I loved how this book juxtaposed the brilliant, ground-breaking research the Curies were doing, as well as scenes from their domestic lives, with the horrors this research would unleash in future years, most obviously with the atomic bomb. The surreal art style only amplified this contrast and the reading experience overall.
960	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	An unusual book that is both fun and informative. The illustrations are well done and the information is presented in an intriguing way. Sort of a graphic novel feel for a biographical and historical topic. I really enjoyed every page.
961	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	"Excerpt -- On Experimenting On Oneself In 1900 Pierre strapped a tube of radium against his arm for ten hours. ""To his joy, a lesion appeared,"" reported his daughter Eve. He examined the damage with detachment."
962	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book is incredible. It's just as much a biography of radiation as it is Marie and Pierre Curie. And a work of art in itself. The Curie's story is heartbreaking, and I was captivated throughout.  One night, I turned off the light in my bedroom and realized the book cover glows. Well done!
963	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	this book is written and illustrated which is unusual and both were done by Lauren. the author is a friend of mine's daughter which prompted me to buy the book. it is the story of madame curie and her husband.........liked it a lot!!!
964	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This book blends scientific research, history, art, and storytelling into a captivating work that illuminates the lives of Marie and Pierre Curie and their contribution to science. Oh, and it glows in the dark. 
965	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Very thought-provoking graphic novel. The author uses the theme of love and power to demonstrate what it can create and destroy. Read a review that called this book the next phase of the graphic novel. Oh and the title glows in the dark!
966	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A beautiful combination of art and carefully chosen words. Redniss weaves together the story of Marie Curie's life and the effects of her work that have long outlived her. At various points I found it moving, heavy, romantic, tragic, and joyful. 
967	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	If there were a way to give this book ten stars, I would. It was amazing and not entirely what I expected. I suppose an interest in the subject matter helps, but likewise, it might also help to know very little and be surprised by the developments. Powerful stuff.
968	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	Sometimes I come across a book I wish I'd made myself. This illustrated love story of Marie and Pierre Curie weaves science, history, art, and philosophy to show that some of the most destructive elements in the world are also some of the most healing--and that the heart always regenerates.
969	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	I love the design of this unique biography—the luminescent art is just beautiful. The fact that Marie Curie’s life story is incredibly interesting seems like a bonus. And who can resist a book that glows in the dark?
970	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is a really neat biography! I think this would be great in a high school collection. It's the story of Marie and Pierre Curie both personal lives and work as scientists. The author mixes in information what their work lead to later. Neat science information and the artwork is beautiful!
971	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	A quirky biography of Marie and Pierre Curie (and their notable offspring) in brilliant cyanotype interspersed with vignettes on the wonderful and horrific consequences of their scientific endeavors. Like a fun, informative high-art comic book. I can guarantee you've read nothing like it.
972	Radioactive:_Marie_and_Pierre_Curie,_A_Tale_of_Love_and_Fallout	This is worth checking out--it's a very inventive juxtaposition of biography and cultural history/scientific history...and the art and color in the book are striking. I don't know much about Marie Curie, but this whetted my appetite to learn more. 
973	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Thank you for the gifted copy, Random House.  Oak Flat is a mesa belonging to the Apache. It’s a holy place where girls have a ritual to celebrate their coming-of-age. Reading about this had me in awe because the culture celebrates women and their femininity.  In 1995, a copper reserve was found nearby, and ever since, a conflict has been waged on who this land belongs to and what it should be used for (as if that should really be a question?! But I digress). I’ve read about conflicts between the federal government and Native lands before, but I was not familiar with Oak Flat. It makes me wonder how many more there are that we don't hear about often enough.  Oak Flat is a stunning and powerful portrayal, a true experience of a read, important, timely, and thought-provoking. I loved it so much I plan to listen to the audio while I gaze and study the visuals inside the book. A can’t miss. I highly recommend a physical copy due to the artwork.  I received a gifted copy. All opinions are my own.  Many of my reviews can also be found on my blog: www.jennifertarheelreader.com and instagram: www.instagram.com/tarheelreader
974	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"""Oak Flat is a serene high-elevation mesa that sits above the southeastern Arizona desert, fifteen miles to the west of the San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation. For the San Carlos tribe, Oak Flat is a holy place, an ancient burial ground and religious site where Apache girls celebrate the coming-of-age ritual known as the Sunrise Ceremony. In 1995, a massive untapped copper reserve was discovered nearby. A decade later, a law was passed transferring the area to a private company, whose planned copper mine will wipe Oak Flat off the map--sending its natural springs, petroglyph-covered rocks, and old-growth trees tumbling into a void...The book follows the fortunes of two families with profound connections to the contested site: the Nosies, an Apache family whose teenage daughter is an activist and leader in the Oak Flat fight, and the Gorhams, a mining family whose patriarch was a sheriff in the lawless early days of Arizona statehood.""  I understand the print version of this to have stunning visuals; I enjoyed the audio with multiple narrators. I appreciated that the issues raised are more broadly shared with various indigenous groups but I also enjoyed learning more about Apache ceremony and this one family's experiences with it.  I had free access through Random House Audio's Volumes app since they have me on the yes list."
975	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I have read the print edition while listening to the audio and that's how I would recommend approaching this work of nonfiction. The illustrations are an important part of the book but at the same time, the audio is phenomenal.  All in all, this is an important and illuminating piece filled with meaningful stories that are both heartbreaking and awe inspiring.
976	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Thank you to Random House for my free copy!  I am very conflicted about this book. It's a physically beautiful object, inside and out. The combination of illustration and language is very effective. The author uses a script-like format for the dialogue, based on what must have been hours of interviews, so there's not a lot of transition text. I certainly learned a lot from it. But I feel very uncomfortable that this book about Indigenous sacred land is written by a white woman. To date, I haven't been able to find commentary or critique of this book from an Indigenous perspective, and that makes me even more nervous.
977	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"The flat and dull text is kept from sinking this book by throwing in lots of illustrations by the author. But the art isn't that great either.  I support the cause of preserving Oak Flat for the Apache who hold it sacred against a destructive copper mining project planned for the area, but the narrative meanders around so much and noodles about in digressions, I'm not sure there is a persuasive point made nearly as effectively as the subtitle. And its one of those books that wants to draw attention to an issue, throwing in opposing viewpoints and tons of quotes from people effected, but the author never definitively comes out and says this sucks, let's oppose it and let's do these things to stop this crap.  This isn't history. This is happening right now. Without taking a stand and offering an action plan, the whole thing becomes a big shrug: ""Aah, so sad. Now what will my next book be about?"""
978	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is a luxurious book. When I picked it up from the library I was surprised at how heavy it was. The pages are on such thick paper that I kept thinking I was turning two pages at once. To me, the physical weight of it communicated the care and attention with which the author and publisher handled the contents. I don’t think I have ever been so impressed by how a book physically feels in my hands.  I was also surprised after picking it up from library when I thumbed through it and saw the illustrations. I can’t remember what whim led me to requesting this from the library, but I had no idea that it was “visual nonfiction” and I’m happy to say that it was a pleasant surprise. Again, the illustrations communicated the author’s care and the time she spent researching the book. I loved how they at times were text in and of themselves, and at other times served to accompany the text. They are lovely.  The author jumps between prose, interviews, investigative reporting, and what seemed like poetry at times. I don’t know if I have read anything like it. At times the jumps were jarring, but mostly they were well placed and well executed. Sometimes I felt like the connections between various people in the story were hard to grasp because they came so quickly. A family tree or visual element that I could refer back to would have been helpful. But even still I could imagine the author sitting and chatting with the members of the town and the reservation.  I wish that there was more at the end, but of course the struggle to preserve Oak Flat is ongoing so I can’t really fault the author for that. I will for sure be looking for information about it in the news, if there is any! I hope that this book will encourage more news coverage.
979	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"This book is a marvel. A self- described ""visual nonfiction,"" Oak Flat provides a sweeping yet intimate examination on the treatment of indigenous peoples in the United States through the lens of a mining town in Arizona and the elevated plateau above it called Oak Flat, where there is still, today, an ongoing political fight between a copper company who wants to mine the huge ore deposits beneath Oak Flat, and the indigenous people who claim it as scared land. If it sounds familiar, it's because it is. Disgustingly familiar. Redniss expertly illustrates, both literally and figuratively, how perverted and corrupt the system has been and continues to be against native people, but with a touch so gentle, you are left to discover your own outrage which makes it all the more powerful. The book is journalism perfected, riveting, and a piece of art unto itself. With a certain holiday just around the corner (currently mid-November as of the writing of this review), I can't help but feel that reading this book is all the more pressing. You won't be disappointed."
980	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	On the face of it, this is a beautiful work of visual non-fiction about a global mining giant attempting to extract vast amounts of copper from under sacred Apache land in Arizona.  But rather than give us an easy moral conundrum, Redniss delves deep into the community of both the San Carlos Apaches and the nearby small town, which like many in Arizona has mining in its blood.  What we get is a balanced, thoughtful and deeply moving investigation and a springboard to explore the great questions of our age.  How do we protect the environment and also create jobs?  How do we access the resources needed in our daily lives without causing destruction of our natural environments?  How do we deal with the injustices of the past while also looking to the future?  Is capitalism viable any more and, if not, what then?  How the hell do we live now?  What the fuck have we done??  What the fuck do we do???  Redniss gives us none of the easy answers because there aren't any. Only great conundrums we are going to have to solve if we still want to exist as a species in a century's time.
981	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I really expected to love this book. The illustrations were lovely, but the text was tedious in places. I've read other books written in a more engaging, narrative style offering the same broader historical details. This was a specific place that had its own story, and its people had their own stories, but my reading experience was to feel far removed from them.
982	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is an interesting way to learn the history of Oak Flat and the battle for indigenous lands. My oh my. The native nations were so wronged by the American government. Capitalism always wins.  Oak Flat is known for having copper. Lots of copper. What happens next? A big company comes in to create a mine. The Apache nations fight it, but guess what? You know what: the mine is under construction.  The book has illustrations that are a nice addition. Redness tries to give all perspectives of the situation. There are good notes in the back also.
984	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book is a unique blend of narrative, artwork, and dialogue. It helped me understand this situation which is still unresolved. Sadly, it’s not hard to imagine that money & lies are going to win out over the environment, archeology, and land that is sacred to the Apache people.
985	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat by Lauren Redniss is an important and beautifully produced piece of visual nonfiction that tells a very human narrative of the ongoing contested fate of Oak Flat, a high elevation tableland in southwestern Arizona that is sacred to the Apache people. However, for decades they’ve been fighting to protect this land from a large copper mining corporation, backed by powerful politicians and billions of dollars, from mining in Oak Flat and destroying the land. Redniss charts out the fortunes of two families on opposing sides of the conflict with a deep-rooted connection to the land. The Nosies, an Apache family, whose young teenage daughter is an activist and advocate for the Apache sentiment and the importance of these sacred lands to her people. On the flip side, you also follow the Gorhams, a family whose livelihood has been around mining for generations and whose patriarch was the first sheriff of the town back in the lawless days of Arizona state. It’s appreciable that Redniss tries to present all sides of the ongoing conflict, but you can’t help but deeply sympathize and root for the Apache people and the profound love and connection they have for their sacred land, hoping against all odds that the big mining corporation will not win this fight. Since it is an ongoing issue, you don’t get the resolution you may be looking for, but the text provides the context necessary to understand the turbulent history the Apache people have faced and the important traditions associated with the Oak Flat. The simple hand-drawn illustrations accompanying the text ground the narrative and help in place-making, and in creating a strong sense of the landscape. A minor quibble I had was that there are several conversations in the text presented in an interview format with several different people. At times, I found this disjointed and confusing to keep straight who’s who. Perhaps those sections could have been edited for clarity or given context before a specific conversation. On the whole, though, I found it well worth a read. 
986	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"I received an ARC of this book from Penguin Random House in exchange for an objective review.  This non-fiction book is unlike anything I have ever read. It combines history, testimony, art, and poetry to examine a serious and controversial issue: the proposal to allow the Resolution Copper Company to begin mining copper on land previously set aside as part of an Apache Indian Reservation. The mining company has already succeeded in persuading the US Congress to allow a ""land exchange"" whereby the Oak Flat land, held as sacred by the Apache tribe, will be turned over to the mining company in exchange for other land yet to be designated. The Native population holds conflicting views on this issue: some see the mine as a sign of progress and a way to boost the local economy and bring new opportunities for work to the residents of the area; others object that the mining operation will destroy sacred lands that have been used for centuries for religious and cultural practices that are crucial to the Apache identity. Redniss presents all sides of the debate, leaving the reader to draw his own conclusions.  The art work illustrating this book is amazing! I must admit I enjoyed the illustrations more than the text. Colorful drawings portray the beauty of the land, while more somber line drawings show the various individuals interviewed for the book. The combination of text and images provides an enlightening glimpse of a culture with which most white Americans are unfamiliar, including descriptions of Apache myths and traditions, historical documents, and personal testimony. A very worthwhile read!"
987	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The editor/author does a really good job of allowing the Native voices of the Apache peoples to shine here and tell their story. On the surface level, this book is about a sacred site being taken away from Native people for mining or capitalist purposes. There are court cases, congressional hearings, and internal tribal disputes about the titular Oak Flats. It's a lot in a small book.  The reader can feel the significance of the site to specific rites within the Apache culture. Beyond that, there is a deepening of the broader, popular cultural understanding of what Apache means. The name is more than a stolen name brand for clothes or software and Geronimo on display for the public. They are people who are alive and dealing with further attempts at cultural genocide through the invalidation of their first amendment rights. The book makes the argument that best fits this sort of desecration: if there were precious metals under the Vatican, would it be acceptable to mine there for profit? It's equally abhorrent to mine in the Oak Flats.  What amount of money is worth destroying a nation's religious practices? What amount of money is worth desecrating and destroying an ancient, holy site?  It's these questions that really draw the stark reality of what it means to have rights in the U.S. --and something that this book presents well. There are parallels to other less religious sites such as the ongoing struggle with DAPL, which ring equally poignantly to the necessity of environmental and racial justice for BIPOC peoples.
988	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Lily Meyer of NPR gave a great review of this book, so I won’t bother (https://www.npr.org/2020/11/20/936989...). The Apache people fight against the rapacious greed of the mining industry, and I wish them all the best in their fight.  ”There are 15,000 members of the San Carlos Apache Tribe. About 10,000 live on the 1.8 million acre San Carlos Reservation. According to tribal officials, there is 70 percent unemployment in San Carlos. The median income is $25,000. Approximately 45 percent of tribal members live below the poverty line, including 59 percent of children under 12. One in two children in San Carlos tests positive for drugs or alcohol at birth. In 2015, the life expectancy of a Native American in Arizona was 60, 16 years shorter than non-Natives in the state.  Resolution Copper has invested more than a billion dollars in the proposed mine and expects to sink some $7 billion more into the project before any minerals are pulled from the ground. The company estimates it will extract $144 billion worth of copper over the life of the mine. Resolution’s parent companies, BHP and Rio Tinto, run mining operations in Chile, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, Zimbabwe, Madagascar, Namibia, South Africa, Australia, Canada, Peru, Mexico, Columbia, Brazil. In 2018, BHP employed some 62,000 people and reported profits from operations of $16 billion. Rio Tinto employed 47,000 people and took in $18 billion in profits from operations” (p. 26).  It’s a Faustian fight either way they go. The utter lack of enforcement of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act (AIRFA) of 1978 is one more tragic farce in the United States of Hypocrisy, where “Thousands of years of indigenous culture are shoehorned into cursory preambles before the real story begins, with the appearance of white settlers. Indians are people who exist in the past tense, whose claim to the land is a distant memory” (p. 146). Redniss proves that the indigenous people of the Americas are still fighting, from Alaska to Chile, and especially in Arizona, and they’re not alone. No surprise Bernie Sanders (pre-mittens meme) and his ilk support Native rights. In solidarity \m/
989	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A beautiful book that's also made with care. It's a different kind of book for me, somewhere between a graphic novel and an art book. I appreciate Redniss's awarenes of her position as an outsider and therefore the emphasis on elevating the Apache people's voices and emphasizing the ongoing life of their culture and traditions. She also presented the opinions of folks local to the area outside the tribe, and tribal members who support mining for its economic benefits. The downside of this approach is that it's hard to get a real sense of arc and narrative. Each chapter presents a point of view and information to understand it, but the author recedes so far that the clarity of where she stands or what she thinks of the whole story is a bit buried. It's also perhaps the risk of writing about an ongoing, unresolved attack on Indigenous religious practice, culture, and land stewardship -- there's no way to write an ending when it's all still happening. I do feel better informed about the different perspectives, different losses and gains due to the fight over mining in Arizona, and I feel like I have a deeper sense of the landscape of the Southwest and the Indigenous people's relationship to it.
990	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I really enjoyed this book. I think many readers are going to find themselves sympathizing with the Native people in this book, but Redniss makes us consider other points of view (didn't really change my mind, tho) and I really enjoyed how the artwork contributed to the story telling. 
991	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Unique and life-affirming. The dreamy and surreal illustrations really bring out the dignity of the people and places in this story. I want more and more of the layers and texture so beautifully depicted here.
992	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A unique combination of reporting and art. Stunning.
993	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"Both the artwork and writing style were beautiful. Redniss is great at exposing the disappointing irony of our society through a mixture of first-hand accounts and research. She makes an effort to include perspectives of a few ""common folk"" on both sides of the issue, and presents this without passing judgement on them. "
994	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I grew up 40 minutes from Oak Flat by car. I've rock climbed next to the mine within 2023  I live in Illinois now. I often reflect on indigeneity. The complex web of relationships in nature, in our communities, and within capitalist structures. Of Arizona-a spiritual place.  One day, I stopped into a Chicago library and this book nearly fell off the shelf into my hand.  Oak Flat is a beautiful book: well illustrated, well narrated. I love how empathetic Redniss is in describing many people's reaction Resolution Copper's influence.
995	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Part graphic novel, part history book, art coffe table-like etchings. This book is an absolute original and defies being categorized. An utter gem which I plan to reread often. 
996	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"Jan 15, 2021: A nonfiction picture book for adults, this book feels like the best of both worlds: the art and poetry of children's picture books and the depth and complexity of adult literature. In rich color and expressive drawings, Oak Flat chronicles an ongoing fight between Resolution Copper and the San Carlos Apache tribe for rights to lands considered lucrative to Resolution Copper and sacred to the Apache. This text zooms into the personal stakes and out to the cultural, environmental, and historical stakes of this fight. It includes testimony from the people involved, as well as extensive research into not only the potential impacts of the mine and the back and forth in the case, but the histories of the involved parties.  ""My grandmother's generation. These were the people who knew the earth. They died as prisoners of war, but they had children. That generation was afraid. Then comes my generation thinking, Hey, wait a minute, this is wrong. I'm out here challenging things, but I'm still a little afraid. Then comes my daughter, who's like, boom, boom, boom, boom! And then, Here comes her daughter, who's like, We're going this way."" —Wendsler Nosie  The book takes no explicit sides, simply presenting arguments from many sides. It ends inconclusively, unsettlingly, and irresolutely, because this lands fight is ongoing and unfolding as I type. In fact, the Trump administration rushed to approve the controversial land exchange today, ahead of the Biden administration's promises to expand tribal land rights and reverse Trump-era rollbacks of protected lands. It's somewhat surreal to experience a book like this in real time, but I think it will be able to stand on its own both as a time capsule for this moment, and as an innovative art and storytelling experience.  I'm very impressed, but may have preferred a more explicit stance from the author. I would read more from her, appreciate the education this book has provided, and will continue to follow the story. 4.5"
997	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"""I used to say I hate politicians. Then I realized just being a Native person, living and breathing, that's almost a political statement. We are supposed to be extinct"" (249).  Oak Flat chronicles the journey of the San Carlos tribe of southeastern Arizona and their struggle to preserve their tribal lands. Along with the interviews and historical background that teaches us more about the Apache tribe, the book is painted with illustrations throughout its length. Within these images you glimpse the natural landscape of the region as well as the portraits of the indigenous peoples to whom it belongs.  This was a buy-at-first-sight sort of a book for me but I still waited to read it almost a year and I wish I hadn't. I'm not sure if it's time that wore out the excitement or simply the fact that book just doesn't live up to the expectation but I found this somewhat underwhelming. The illustrations are brilliant and I loved the art style adapted for it. Where the disappointment lies is within the writing.  The writing is padded around the illustrations throughout but although those disruptions were somewhat jarring for me at times, the writing on its own is dull and unimaginative. The portions where the reading improves is when the interviewees were speaking because some of the things they had to say resonated with a poetic hum.  Despite this, Oak Flat by Lauren Redniss is still a book worth reading because I honestly did learn a lot. I have an immense amount of respect for indigenous peoples of North America and hearing their voices always makes me feel privileged (given how little exposure they are given in the United States) and as such, I wouldn't have traded this experience for anything else. And if not for the narrative, I would still purchase this one for my library given the beauty of the physical book."
998	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	4.5 stars  When copper was discovered on sacred Native American ground, the poor native people find themselves fighting corporate greed and the federal government. I found this well researched book to be enlightening and disturbing and had a knot in my stomach most of the time as I listened to it. The audio has a full cast and is formatted differently than I’m used to (each character was announced before they spoke) but I came to enjoy it and appreciate it. I came to realize just how poorly native people are treated in the US to this day and it upset and shamed me.
999	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"""In Apache tradition, black is the color of the East, where the sun rises. At night, the sun is said to sink underground, into a black hole...It's dark underground. It's dark in outer space. We grope around, searching for meaning and treasure. Black is the beginning. If you go back to the beginning, everything was dark. You start from nothing. Things start to come to light."" Mining. A dark and destructive industry. This visual non-fiction book is about mining and its very specific impact on the land and people of the San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation in southeastern Arizona. If you've read any work by Redniss (Radioactive, perhaps?), you know how well-researched her work is and how gorgeously perfect the art work is as well. I am not surprised that I just read a whole lot of history about the Indigenous people of Arizona that I never learned in the schools I attended in growing up in Phoenix. I do remember the Mt Graham battle over the building of telescopes when I was living in Tucson though and it's interesting to think the Pope was involved in that battle (I don't remember that part!) This book left me with a lot to think about in terms of what mining does to communities because it also made me aware that copper (which what these large mining conglomerates want to extract from under Oak Flat) is needed to construct my car (even more for ""greener"" cars apparently), my home's wiring, and the very device on which I type this review. Stuff. It always come back to stuff."
1000	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"I first encountered Redniss' work when I read Radioactive at the beginning of the month. Oak Flat is another work of ""visual nonfiction"", this one about Oak Flat, an area of protected land in Arizona that is sacred to the Apache people. It also happens to be near a recently discovered lode of copper and the struggle to protect this land from mining is working it's way through the courts. I'm familiar with the Standing Rock protests, but I didn't know anything about the mining proposal at Oak Flat. Redniss explores the meaning of the place to the Apache people and the push to mine the area for the economic impact. As with any dispute over the rights to land that is tied to our native peoples, the US track record of taking what we want, and deciding what we think is acceptable risk/loss/cost with no concern for the long term impact on the land, the community, and the culture is evident throughout. Redniss is a talented writer, able to pull elements together from across points of view. The illustrations in here are absolutely stunning and made this an immersive reading experience."
1001	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Such a powerful book. Makes me so upset knowing that so much of Native American history has been swept under the rug. The inhumane way not only the Apache were treated but how all of the natives to this country have been. Their history and culture literally decimated and white washed. This book gives a view into several generations of Apache people and their struggles to keep their land and way of life alive. Hearing about the Oak Flats and how mining will be double edged sword to their way of life in Arizona was eye opening. The Apache ceremony of a young womans change into woman hood is carried out through the course of this book and while I have not made the full connection to that yet I believe it speaks volumes to an attempt to hold onto their traditions and seems to be one of that last to survive under the oppression they have faced. I don't feel well enough informed to all of this and this drives me to learn more of our countries Native Americans. Thank you so much PRHAudio for this complimentary listen. The audio was put together so well and the narrations gave the book even more power.
1002	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"A strange book--sort of ""graphic non-fiction""--with many, many illustrations. The illustrations of the landscape are evocative; the colored-pencil portraits of the people are childish. The book recounts the as-yet-unresolved quest by Resolution Copper to establish a copper mine near Superior, Arizona, just west of the San Carlos Apache Reservation. If established, the mine would cause subsidence at Oak Flat, an area held sacred by the Apaches. Oak Flat would collapse into a subsidence crater. Much of the book consists of interviews with Apaches from the reservation and local townspeople concerning the clash over ecosystem and cultural preservation versus the need for income in a very impoverished part of the American Southwest.  The book's layout is unappealing. The text is set in double-space (or even wider line spacing, in some places), which gives it the look of a draft manuscript."
1003	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Central to the narrative of this outstanding work of illustrated nonfiction is the long, ongoing struggle to protect Oak Flat, a scared space and ancient burial ground fifteen miles to the west of the San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation in southeastern Arizona, from a multinational mining company wanting to mine copper. Redniss follows the fortunes of two families with profound connections to the contested site: the Nosies, an Apache family whose teenage daughter is an activist and leader in the Oak Flat fight, and the Gorhams, a mining family whose patriarch was a sheriff in the lawless early days of Arizona statehood. 
1004	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"""Because these names depict a place at a particular moment in time, they also mark time's passage...If Oak Flat's mesas, with their old-growth trees, were to collapse into a subsidence crater caused by mining, the place would be destroyed. The name would linger in its absence.""  3.5 stars, I appreciated how Redniss centered Indigenous voices with the more interview-style of the book, but wish she went deeper into some of the history and came to a stronger conclusion/some kind of call to action at the end."
1005	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Wow wow wow stunning visual experience of the beloved southwest!! I’ve never read a visual nonfiction before and am very interested to see what else is out there; really compelling storytelling weaving in different perspectives and current storylines with history. Somewhat embarrassed I learned so much given the time I’ve spent around Superior and presumably Oak Flat — excited to discuss with Arizonans and learn more.  The ending speech mixed with the drawings of sacred sites moved me to tears. Stunning.
1006	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Listened via Libro.fm  I absolutely missed out on the visuals that accompany the text, however, the narration was incredible and made differentiating between individual experiences much easier. I was unsure about reading a Native American story through the gaze of a White woman, but Lauren Redniss put together something very thorough, purposeful, and heart-felt with this work. I will never look at copper, telescopes, or obsidian as I once did. Many doors of thought and appreciation were opened through reading this.
1007	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	An overview of the battle between Native Americans in the Superior, AZ area and Resolution Mining. Redniss takes into consideration all of the applicable stakeholders, and supplements their interviews with some gorgeous drawings. Not so much a story as opposed to a series of interviews, yet this seems to be a decent approach to a situation that has unfortunately repeated itself through history.
1008	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Very unique book and style of storytelling. Almost felt like you were a part of the conversations and the author seemed to provide facts and alternative perspectives without guiding your opinion too much. Loved the accompanying visuals. Need to continue learning more about Native American/Indigenous histories and present day fights.
1009	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This felt disjointed and forced at first, but then it fell into a rhythm that suited me and in my opinion, the story being told. Almost like an extended journalistic endeavor overlayed with an artistic brushstroke, the author successfully weaves together a few diverse perspectives surrounding a time and place. 
1010	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Redniss tells the story of the fight for preservation of Oak Flat through a series of interviews, providing historical context when applicable. She weaves beautiful pictures and poems into the book, allowing for your imagination to be drawn to the impressive settings in Arizona and beyond.  Although I enjoyed it, the book is rather short and often feels disjoint. There are sadly many stories to tell when speaking of the atrocities the US has committed against the indigenous Americans. I felt like they could've been better incorporated in the narrative to provide greater weight to modern struggles.  Overall, this book is definitely worth a read!
1011	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This interesting piece of visual non-fiction, focuses on an Arizona mountain site sacred to the local Apache Indigenous population called Oak Flat. Unfortunately, big mining interests have their eye on the place due to a large copper deposit and the U.S. Federal government supports this kind of economic 'development.' It's the old story of settlers grabbing land from First Nations peoples, ignoring their cultural, economic, social, and spiritual interests and it's so sad that we're still playing out this drama (or should I say trauma) in 2020.  This book is billed as graphic, but it is much more text-heavy than is commonly found in such works. The images are striking, though this kind of naive art is not exactly to my taste; however, the book really works in a way that a more realistic, less magical-realism set of images would likely allow. A good read that underscores the costs of failing to learn from history.
1012	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	really good and every little chapter is pretty intriguing. part of me wishes it was a bit more focused bc nothing went super deep or in-depth but I didn't mind that it was super human-interest-y.  illustrations were kinda unnecessary tho
1013	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I appreciated how the author made sure to include different perspectives on such a controversial issue. As someone who does not understand the Southwest or mining, it really helped when trying to understand why either side took the stance they did.
1014	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"The format interweaving interview voices with narrative passages made this nonfiction easy to read and gave it that ""what happens next"" drive. The story telling around the Sun Ceremony for girls coming of age in Apache tradition were my favorite bits! So powerful as a juxtaposition with the shame-based messaging of my own (white) culture."
1015	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I’ve really never read anything like this and I love it but why did it have to end that way?? I’ve read the last few pages maybe five times now trying to feel settled in the ending. I guess there’s just not an end to this story. It made me think a lot about how America, a country founded on religious freedom, makes a mockery out of indigenous religions. 
1016	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	4.75 stars  Such a powerful narrative form that the author does so well. What a gorgeous piece of illustrative non-fiction that uses illustrations to help make a complicated subject easier to understand. Such an important book.
1017	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I love the drawings that accompany the telling of the history and current issues in regard to this area in Arizona that is sacred land to the Apache people.
1018	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is a beautiful book.
1019	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I'm a big fan of graphic nonfiction. This was an interesting series of interviews of Apache citizens. Just wish it was longer and more in depth. 
1020	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A gorgeous book with lovely illustrations. I appreciate Redniss's thoughtfulness when she approaches her subjects, and the care she takes to do a thorough and beautiful job to tell her stories. 
1021	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book was beautiful and I loved the inserts from all 
1022	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A sweeping, human-centered history of a sacred land jeopardized by the greed and religious insistence of colonization, from a frontier-era United States until now.  Audiobook accessed through the libro.fm bookseller program, via my place of work, Oxford Exchange bookstore in Tampa, FL.
1023	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The format of this book was so different and interesting. The illustrations and the journalistic style are something I haven’t come across before and I liked the depth it added to learning about Oak Flat and the struggle to preserve it.
1024	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I really enjoyed the way this book is written with the interviews intermixed with beautiful drawings. 
1025	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book was beautiful and it fucked me up! Fuck every mine! Fuck a precious metal! Settler destruction sucks all life from the land but not before sucking the souls of the people. But more than big fuck a mine energy, what a gift it was hearing the words of the Nosie family talk about their family, their ancestors, their love of oak flat, and their detailed description of the Sunrise Dance. I cried and cried.
1026	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Another outstanding book by the author of Radioactive, once again combines art with prose. I really appreciated her even-handed narrative, which while obviously looking at the imbalance of the historical treatment of the Native American tribes, does not obscure that the impact of what is happening in the American West impacts all the population. Fascinating read.
1027	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The book develops deep empathy with the different stakeholders through beautiful storytelling. There are no clear answers but you'll care about the outcome. Highly recommend.
1028	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Great book! The pictures are beautiful and the stories are wonderful. Great insight. Highly recommend. 
1029	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"When I first encountered Redniss's work, I was categorizing her in with graphic novels and that ilk, but this book veers back toward conventional narrative. The author bio describes her craft as ""visual nonfiction,"" but it feels like an uneasy hybrid to me. "
1030	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"This was a very enlightening book about a subject I had no prior knowledge about. The story and the art were really powerful.  But I'm hesitant to give this more than 2 stars because of the nature of its existence: a white woman with the support of the MacArthur Foundation comes in to document the efforts of the Apache people in Oak Flat and then peaces out, heading on book tours, wins awards, and is featured in the New York Times. I couldn't find any mention in the book or online about if/how the people she interviewed were compensated, or if she's giving the money she's getting from book sales and tours back to the people doing the work on the ground at Oak Flat.  It reminds me of the making of the documentary ""Paris is Burning"", a film by Jennie Livingston (a white person) about the queer ball scene in 1980s New York City. Livingston received funding from the National Endowment for the Arts to produce the film and went on to win various awards—all while the 13 Black and Latine gay and trans artists who starred in the film were compensated roughly $4,000 each, with no other profits from the film given to them. There's no doubt that ""Paris is Burning"" is an iconic film in the queer canon—inspiring groundbreaking shows like ""Pose""—but it's also just another story about how the people whom the work appears to uplift are rarely compensated adequately.  The people with lived experience are cultural and historical experts and should be compensated as such. "
1031	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The illustrations made each page turn such a delight! The frank, unbiased set of perspectives told through the stories of different stakeholders was also gently laid out,/l and allowed readers to draw their own nuanced opinions (indigenous Apache folks who are fighting for their land not to be mined, people in the slightly abandoned town of Superior who are eager for an economic injection that a mining town would provide, etc.)  The end was really sudden? I was expecting a little more of a conclusion, but instead I guess the author wants me to think about these diff perspectives and draw my own.  My personal conclusion is that while these mining companies are making billions in revenue, the rest of people are left to fight for scraps. Why is the town of Superior s desperate for an economic injection, that their only option is another Mining excavation that will produce tons and tons of toxic sludge that has to be dammed up?  Ok my last comment is that...i saw people said this was really well researched and...it seemed more like a deep dive into a few families and their generations? Not like a fullly well researched thing that I’m used to? That being said, hearing history and facts from the perspective of a continuous lineage of family members leant a smooth story telling that kept my attention, and made it easier to read
1032	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"Oak Flat is an unusual book, presenting a combination of drawings (mostly pastels and colored pencil) and text--interviews, history and reporting--as it delves into Apache culture and Arizona mining. I found it to be both enchanting and enraging as I learned about the plan to destroy a mesa near the San Carlos Apache Reservation in the name of economic development. It's an old story--preservation versus destruction in order to extract natural resources. For Oak Flat, the resource is copper. The land belongs to the National Forest Service, but through sleight of hand, its transfer to Resolution Copper was tucked into a 2014 defense appropriations bill at the last moment. The Apaches and environmentalists have been fighting to stop the transfer ever since. President Biden recently put it on ""pause,"" but it appears that a reversal would take an act of Congress.  Because of the artwork, this book is best read in paper rather than electronic form.  ++++ I read this book a second time for my James Museum Book Club and was delighted that author Lauren Redniss was able to Zoom with us. What a talented young woman!"
1033	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	“Just as Mount Sinai is a holy place to Christians, Oak Flat is the equivalent for us….There are no human actions or steps that could make this place whole again or restore it once lost.”  President Biden just blocked the copper mine again, and for 25 years right has prevailed, but for how much longer? The crimes against American Indians continue and I care, but so many don’t. We have somehow adopted a soulless worldview and today, I was lifted by this soulful, heartfull, love full, spirit filled, honest book combining word and visual art. Beautiful. Heartbreaking. Heart filling.  “Today the tribe’s official website states: “The San Carlos Apache Reservation was established on November 9, 1871. It is the world’s first concentration camp still existing to this day.”  “in March 1992, the Vatican Observatory issued an eight-page statement written by Father Coyne. “We are not convinced by any of the arguments thus far presented that Mount Graham possesses a sacred character. FATHER GEORGE COYNE: “If they could show us Apaches buried under the telescope, or some clear evidence that the specific ground the telescope is on is sacred, then we’d reconsider.”  
1034	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is an incredible visual nonfiction book that educated me on the fight for Oak Flat, a sacred mesa located in Arizona that belongs to the Apache. The land is rich with copper, an important and expensive supply used in nearly everything (buildings, cars, etc). Once the American government found out about its supply, the battle was on. But the Apache, like so many other tribes in the United States (the Souix at Standing Rock in South Dakota is the first that comes to mind) are fighting to preserve these lands that they respect and call home.  The book not only lays out the value of the land, it also gave me so much cultural information. The Apache are a culture that value women and it was beautiful to read about the coming-of-age ceremony that the young women go through. There is so much respect for each person and their role within the tribe and I greatly appreciated reading about some of it.  The artwork throughout the book emphasized the points Redniss was trying to make and they are truly beautiful. The colors are so vibrant and they jump off the page!
1035	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	[4.5 stars rounded up]  OAK FLAT: A FIGHT FOR SACRED LAND IN THE AMERICAN WEST (Lauren Redniss) tells the story of a copper mining company’s takeover of a site that holds not only natural beauty and biodiversity, but also spiritual significance to the San Carlos Apache tribe. It is a compelling work of reporting and oral history as well as a stunning work of art. Redniss is an effective storyteller who presents multiple points of view without editorializing; she trusts the reader to synthesize the competing perspectives. Her colored pencil drawings evoke mood and setting in a way that mere words cannot.  I’m so glad I read this and I highly recommend it to anyone seeking to learn more about the continued fight for indigenous rights or environmental justice. It’s a beautiful, immersive experience - you won’t regret it.
1036	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I loved this book.  It has been a long time since I have felt so connected to the content of a book, especially one describing a life experience so wholly different from my own. Redniss puts together such a holistic look at Native land rights, effectively weaving together a combination of deeply personal stories and almost clinical science and information that drew me in. Not a little, but all the way in.  I will certainly be reading more of her work. 
1037	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Such a beautiful book. A mining company tries to get the rites to mine for copper at a sacred Apache site in Arizona. The author talks to several groups to see how this might affect them and reports without judgment. A beautiful mosaic of a book, with interviews, concise history and wonderful drawings throughout. 
1038	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book is hard for me to rate and describe. It is about an Indian reservation people fighting to keep their sacred ground safe from a copper mining company. Apparently this is an on-going situation. The book has beautiful colored pictures of the Indians, their land, etc. The book seems to skip from one thing to another but, through it all, I feel like I was educated!
1039	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Featured in LVDL’s Best Books of 2020: https://ccs.polarislibrary.com/polari.... [Re]INVEST in 2020: Re-invest in reading. In May, give graphic novels a try. Find this book in our catalog!
1040	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"I feel rather bad giving this a low rating, because it does highlight two major subjects which I am particularly passionate about as an activist: learning about and honoring indigenous peoples and their traditional ways and places, and the ongoing global catastrophe the capitalist industrialism has wrought. The problem is the editing and format with which the stories are presented in this book.  The style throughout the book is one of rapidly and sometimes randomly jumping from narrator to narrator, sometimes using the voices of three different people to utter one sentence, and breaking up that sentence by repeatedly introducing the person about to speak, like stage instructions for a play. This method sometimes works well in documentaries or theatrical productions, but in book or audiobook format, it is constantly distracting and confusing.  Furthermore, the content itself is all over the place, like the project is never sure what it is supposed to be. Historical information is largely shared in a dry manner of uttering sequential facts, and then there are lengthy chunks that are more like a scene from reality tv, where we're just witnessing mundane daily scenes between different figures that unfortunately don't successfully make the overall narrative much more rich or personably engaging.  Honestly, the whole thing is like listening to the transcript of an experimental documentary. What it does well is teaching the reader about the details of certain Apache rituals and cultural beliefs - particularly the intense coming-of-age ceremony young people are put through upon their first menstrual cycle.  A few highlights I got from the book and thoughts on one particular Apache individual interviewed to stand as ""the other side,"" betraying his own people to gain the promises of short-term wealth and praise from white industry leaders:  Despite condemning Galileo for correctly positing heliocentrist theory, the Vatican has astronomers, some of whom became based in Arizona. Pope JP2 went there and gave a speech acknowledging many important things about the Native Americans and how colonialism negatively impacted them, but didn’t name the huge negative impact the RC church had. Immediately after, some Apaches wrote JP beseeching him to stop the Vatican’s building of a massive telescope on their sacred mountain. A different RC priest responded basically “well, only if you could show us proof of Apache buried on that site or physical evidence that the mountain is sacred, then we’d reconsider.”  Whereas the Navajo Nation owns the rights to their tribal name (as seen in lawsuit against Urban Outfitters), the Apaches do not, as evidenced by the countless uses of the name Apache to sell or aggrandize various products.  It’s really sad and hard listening to Michael Betom, who has clearly been seduced by the delusions of consertive politics and Western Capitalist-Imperialist notions of “upliftment” of native peoples and an “if you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em” defeatist mentality. He cites a very influential moment as a young student, where his classroom teacher told the class that Democratic is what poor people like them on the reservation would be voting for, whereas “Republicans are rich,” and Betom thought, understandably, “I don’t want to always be poor. I want to be rich, so I guess I’m going to be a Republican.” He subsequently sold out his community and brags about being praised by John McCain among a crowd of white elites. I cringed listening to him, as if I were hearing a trans woman who has gained power and a voice in the media by claiming that trans people are truly mentally ill and need to stop harassing cis people to respect and learn from them."
1041	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"I have stood at the base of Spinal Tap, a 5.10-rated climb in Looner Land in the Oak Flat area, contemplating the moves necessary to make it up the lava-pocketed face to the top.  I have pitched my tent at Oak Flat Campground and slept like I never slept in the chaos of Phoenix, rousing early to a morning star so bright in the predawn sky that it looked like a streetlight.  I have wandered desert trails outside of Superior, Arizona, looking up at the remnants of Magma Mine No. 9, glad that mining was a thing of the past, that the mining companies had walked away from the area, leaving it to the lizards and bobcats and rattlesnakes, to the indigenous peoples and those of us who seek solace in the brazen, fragile attar of wilderness spaces.  I have stopped in Superior to buy gas or snacks, or to enjoy freshly made Mexican food after a long day of rock climbing, reveling in the cordial welcomes, the open friendliness of a small Arizona town.  One of the first lessons I learned as a hiker and rock climber was respect. Respect—for the rock, the desert and its denizens, and the Native Americans who make this place home—is ingrained in me.  Which makes what is happening at Oak Flat all the more tragic. Because the land grab by Resolution Copper makes a mockery of the word ""respect.""  The company is throwing money into little projects in Superior in an apparent effort to shore up support from the local community. Many folks welcome the opportunity to see the town revitalized by mining money. But the maladroit block caving technique Resolution plans to use to wrest copper ore from beneath Oak Flat will create an enormous crater two miles wide and leave the area riven with physical and environmental hazards for decades to come.  Resolution will destroy an area sacred to local tribes—an area long preserved for their culture, but now traded away by the very government that once assured them it was theirs. The mine will also threaten a spectacular natural landmark: Apache Leap, which rises like a frozen ochre waterfall along the western edge of Superior. Resolution has made clear that it cannot guarantee Apache Leap won't fall into the pit, too.  Redniss's excellent research, evocative prose and illustrations bring the conflict—and the tragedy—to life. It's easy for outsiders to look at the Desert Southwest and think, ""Oh, there's nothing there. Just mine it, already."" But a closer examination proves that initial glance wrong. The desert is teeming with life, rich with history and human tradition, but it is incredibly fragile. As too much love can kill an area, so can too much mining.  It is past time for us to use a better calculus."
1042	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is such an amazing book, deep diving into sacredness and the fight between the apache tribes and resolution coal mines. There were different perspectives and a very whole interview was played through my ears. Nalen pike is the warrior destined at their sunrise dance. This also really encouraged womanhood, love and respect, admiration and significance of women in us, in this tribe. Nalen stands in solidarity with her native relatives and brings their struggles with her when she addresses congress. Words come to her and she speaks. She doesnt use notes or prep, her spirit tells her what to say. I think this book is an amazing one and would love to read this again, this time in my hands. This book also started with the intricacies of creation in scientific terms then lauren goes into talk about the use of coal and why people want it and need it. I learned a lot tho i couldnt catch all the details, i know that this is a book to go back to. There are more lessons to unpack and read into. How does it feel to be called, to be surrounded by mist, to be supported by our beloved land. This struggle is still happening. Much of the argument on the other side rests on trying to help with the economy using the colonizer way. People were talking that mining towns are soon to be ghost towns because there arent a lot of opportunities and people dont want to be in mining towns. And thats what superior town is and where oak flat is. People wanted others to come so there is revenue. But what if it isnt that anyone is behind but that the system intentionally presses you down. Then you cant move up because they have more power. There is no way. We cant just do our own thing. They will crush us with legislations. If we cannot dismantle, we have to infiltrate and confiscate. I just feel so helpless that all this fight is just one legislation away, one lease away, one bill. They have so much money, they have so much to take. )))): ahhhhhhhhh
1043	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	What a striking book. Redniss combines longform journalism with vibrant, colorful drawings to share what it is like to live near a once-and-future boomtown in the American Southwest. Although her work includes arguments for and against mining copper in Oak Flat, it's less invested in what will or should happen there than what it is like to experience the struggle in the first place.  Oak Flat is rich in copper, an increasingly-valued resource. But its status as federal land and its significance as an Apache spiritual site, among other concerns, would make mining there difficult. None the less, large corporations and government support line up behind the effort. Redniss primarily follows one Apache family, the Nosies, as they protest the project.  A different kind of book might be more skeptical of the Nosies--for example, was Wendsler Nosie really trying to pray on Mt Graham the day he was arrested for trespassing, or was he trying to get caught on purpose?--but Redness finds a lot of value in presenting them (and others) exactly in the way they want to be presented. Similarly, a different author might situate the fight within the larger history of Federal land-thefts; but that perspective is only visible through how it affected her interview subjects and their direct ancestors. After some reflection (it takes a little time to figure out what this book is doing), I like this choice. Those other ways of telling the story are out there, they already exist. This is different.  The format is engrossing and a little disorienting. It's hard to predict how long each chapter will last. The line spacing can vary from page to page, especially if the text is combined with visual elements. Some of the pages without illustration look odd, too empty. I found the whole effect compelling, but I can imagine your mileage varying.
1044	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	An illustrated nonfiction that offered a smorgasbord of information and a window onto the world of Oak Flat. The text is a series of interviews intermixed with narrative. This style brings the affected people to the forefront of the story, and let them have a direct voice in telling it. It’s an interesting combination, and one that might be more effective than just a straight narrative history of the Oak Flat area, the long and shady past of Indian Affairs, and the current attitude of dismissal toward Native American issues as pesty and inconsequential.  The story of the girls’ coming-of-age dance on the Oak Flat site was one of my favorite pieces of this. It translated the impersonal concept of sacred land into a very personal connection. Unfortunately, whereas I see it as a lovely example of another culture’s religious experience, I can absolutely envision a condescending response that treats this religion practice as superstitious or silly or unimportant. And I’m not sure how to work around that. How is it possible to convince someone who sees their own religious practice, their own economic prosperity, as the only true way, that there are other options?  I was ambivalent about the illustrations. One photo pops up out of nowhere toward the end of the book, but otherwise the text is punctuated by a series of what look like colored pencil drawings. These evoke the heat and the constantly shifting nature of Native American existence as seen through the eyes of white government. On one hand I wanted more photographs, but on the other, the extraordinary color of the illustrations offered a visual break that you just don’t get with black and white photos.  A few odd Michigan connections. The town of Superior was named by/for a Michigan company; MSU was one of those originally interested in opening a telescope station on the sacred land, but ultimately pulled out.
1045	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"Oak Flat's subtitle, ""A Fight for Sacred Land in the American West,"" doesn't really capture the full thrust of the book. Some Apaches of the San Carlos Reservation indeed have been fighting to stop copper mining in Oak Flat, a sacred space where important ceremonies take place, especially girls' initiation rites into adulthood. But Redniss also chronicles the attitudes of white residents of Superior who support the mine in hopes of its sparking economic revival in a desperately poor region. She also discusses some Apaches who also want the mine, most notably one who works for the mining company, Resolution Copper, a joint venture of two global extraction companies.  The story here is depressingly similar to hundreds throughout the American West: the conflict over development against environment and Indigenous peoples' rights; the promises of economic prosperity from an industry whose boom and bust cycles have left the West pockmarked with dead towns and toxic waste; political corruption. Oak Flat offers a good case study with plenty of detail and insight into the human sides of the debate, but there's really nothing much new in the wider picture. That that's the case is, perhaps, the real message--despite everything, nothing much has changed.  Redniss published her book in 2020. Since then, there has been little movement on resolving the issues around Oak Flat. The US Forest Service withdrew its Environmental Impact Statement, saying more time was needed to consider Apache objections to the mine. Legislation has been introduced (for the fourth time) in Congress to deauthorize the land exchange necessary for the mine to go forward. And Biden issued a Memorandum on Tribal Consultation and Strengthening Nation-t0-Nation Relationships. The outcome is far from assured."
1046	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"Native Americans are still fighting for their land. Everyone has heard of Standing Rock but not many have heard of Oak Flat. This book follows the struggle of the Apache to save one of their sacred sites where their young women have their sacred coming of age ceremony from a mining company that wishes to extract the copper under the earth. A process that over time would cause what is essentially a giant sinkhole that would eventually destroy a place that has a unique ecosystem as well as being considered sacred by the Apache. This book does a good job in getting view points not just from the Apache people but also mining families so one can see what it was like to live in a boom or bust kind of environment. It also points out how even today the Native Americans are still being shafted by the government and the white people in their community. While the Navajo have trademarked their name and it cannot be used without their permission the Apache do not have such a thing in place. As a result many companies have benefitted from using the Apache name on their products but none of that profit sees it's way to the Apache people. They also talked about how the kidnapping of indigenous youth to ""civilize"" them (a.k.a. cultural genocide) impacted the generations. Those that wish to keep their electronics and electric vehicles need to realize the demand for copper is part of the problem. It's time we start insisting on recycling copper found in discarded items rather than mining for new. While Oak Flat is now considered a historic site it still does not protect it from destruction in the future. I highly recommend people read this to gain understanding of what they fight for as well as what they have already lost culturally."
1047	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Lauren Redniss opens her nonfiction work with the expansion and collapse of stars. The supernova expands, and in its collapse, creates another nuclear energy that leads to an explosion. And from the molecular cloud that is left behind, more stars, like our sun, are created. There is beauty in this violent cycle.  Redniss visits this same cycle of growth and destruction, growth and decay around mining towns. Arizona's topography is littered with unyielding mines. The towns that once flourished at the foot of these mines now sit like grave markers to the previous wealth that made the towns boom to begin with.  Right now, Arizona is at a crossroads. Move forward with one of the biggest copper finds ever, one that will yield 25% of America's copper needs, create jobs for Arizonans, billions in wealth (for the corporation), and local economic stability. Or, recognize the patterns of destruction that come with it. The long trail of pollution that seeps into ground water. The billions of gallons of toxicity that come from mining copper. And most importantly, the destruction of sacred land to the Apache: Oak Flat.  Oak Flat is a place for women. Well, not just women, but certainly the cultural patrimony is steeped in tradition rooted in blessing girls into womanhood. Oak Flat is a place filled with power. It is to Apaches what Mt. Sinai is to christians. It is the place where the sunrise dance is performed, a dance for girls who have begun menstruation, and will recreate the Apache creation myth. Ancestors remain there.  If the Resolution Copper Project begins mining there, Oak Flat will collapse in on itself leaving a two mile wide subsidence that is projected to be 1000 feet deep.
1048	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat is a mesa in eastern Arizona that has been considered sacred land for generations by the Apache. The tribe’s female coming-of-age rite, the Sunrise Ceremony, is held at Oak Flat. Currently, an international mining corporation has finagled a land trade that would give the mining cooperation total control of Oak Flat. If the corporation is successful, a copper mine would be built, and in the process, all living things on the mesa and the mesa itself would be destroyed. The Apache and also numerous environmental organizations are contesting the take-over by the mining corporation. As I write this, the issue has not yet been resolved.  My comments here are from the perspective of a former journalist, an academic librarian, and a working artist.  The text of this book is combines historical and cultural commentary, interviews, and the author’s illustrations. The historical/cultural commentary informs us not only of the struggle by the Apache to preserve Oak Flat, but also includes commentary on the long struggle of Native American tribes to preserve their lands and culture in all parts of the U.S.. The interviews are with Apache tribal members who have worked in the past and currently work to save Oak Flat, as well as an interview with tribal member who supports the mine. These passages, both commentary and the interviews, are somewhat informative and interesting to read, but fairly superficial. The text seems to be on the level of younger YA readers, not an in-depth look at the subject. The book also has numerous illustrations by the author which, to me, are quite unimpressive. So this book gets four stars from me – barely four stars. 
1049	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat is a Sacred burial site for the Apache Indians. It is also a place of a potential copper mine in the Arizona desert. The debate of how this land should be handled still continues as the poor Apache people try to preserve its beauty and importance while a large wealthy corporation tries to use it as a for profit copper mine. This book follows two families with totally different perspectives in both their history and in their current views.  Lauren Redniss interviews many generations of an Apache family who describe their history in Oak Flat. They discuss the many traditions connected to their culture as well as to that sacred land. She also interviews many Gorham family members as they discuss their mining history in the area. These intergenerational interviews provide an in depth view.  The author clearly did a lot of research as evidenced in her discussions with so many people. She also added graphic art to try to enhance the story. A downside is that it was confusing at times to know exactly who was speaking and their relationship to the main families. There were so many that were quoted. Also some of the art had a clear connection to the topic or landscapes, some were drawings of actual people, but some didn't seem to have much relevance. It was just too whimsical. Overall, I enjoyed reading this for a clear view of the Oak Flat area. It is a quick and easy read yet is still filled with facts.
1050	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The underlying issue of this book -- the fight between Indigenous Apache people and a mining company for the Oak Flat land, which is rich in both copper and culture -- is incredibly interesting, layered, and important. I just really didn't like the way the story was delivered. I barely finished it.  The illustrations were nice, not enough to make up for the lackluster text. It was choppy, bland, and confusing. Information is delivered in monologue, sometimes dialogue, so the people featured are often speaking for themself. That's cool. But there was not enough filling the spaces between these features, so we are plopped in front of a person without much explanation, context, or transition.  I think part of the disconnect and distance that I felt is due to the fact that this book is written by a non-Indigenous author. That's important to note (and it has been wrongly tagged a few times in other reviews). Redniss takes a journalistic stance, trying to report all sides of the issue (anti-mine Apache people, pro-mine Apache people, pro-mine white families, local politicians).  It just comes out as a blob of stuff, some parts of it quite powerful and educational, but all of it still blob. Objective reporting can still be compelling and well-written, but this isn't.  Update: recent news on the Oak Flat legal issue, featuring the Nosie family
1051	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is a beautifully designed and packaged book, combining original drawings from the author as well as interviews with inhabitants of Superior, Arizona and the reservation located on a site that Resolution Copper will turn into a mine. I appreciated that Redniss lets the Native subjects speak for themselves in their own words, but it still felt a little strange to read a book largely about the traditions, hopes, and fears of Native people written by a white woman. This is an important story worth being told, but was Redniss the right person to tell it? I'm not sure.  One thing to know is that there isn't really a narrative to this book -- it's a nonfiction collection of interviews with a handful of subjects about the impact building a mine will have on their lives and their towns. For me, that made it difficult to stick with at times, because there was no momentum or anything driving the book forward, so if I put it down for a couple of days, I didn't really feel compelled to pick it back up. For that reason, I'm not sure this was entirely successful. But I would still recommend, especially if you've seen Nomadland and wondered about how the creation and later closure of mines and mining towns impacts Native people, who have a sacred tie to many of these places in the West.
1052	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I’d already read articles on Oak Creek Flat and the proposed mine, so I didn’t learn much from this book. I also didn’t understand why all the un-related digressions were necessary, except to pad a short book. However, if you are new to the topic, this will at least give you the basic information about the controversy.  My favorite part of this book was learning more about the Apache coming-of-age ceremony for women, which I had read about briefly before. It’s very beautiful. It’s absolutely a cultural tradition and way of seeing women that white people have missed out on because we were so bent on exterminating indigenous people. Think if we had allowed cultural exchange to go the other way, and this ceremony had been adopted into the wider society, instead of us imposing all our values by force on them and not allowing anything to come the other way; we’d have a more respectful view of menstruation and womanhood and a wonderful ceremony for celebrating it.  One thing I did learn was about the telescopes built on top of a mountain in Apache territory, against their wishes, as it is sacred ground for them. The arguments of white peoples claiming that the Apache hadn’t “proved” that the area was sacred, and that Catholics needed to be ready to convert any extraterrestrial aliens, were infuriating.
1053	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	In the mountains about an hour east of Phoenix, there is a place named Oak Flat which for generations has been a sacred space for gatherings of the San Carlos Apache of Arizona. Among the many different types of ceremonies performed there, the most important one is perhaps the Sunrise dance ceremony in which Apache girls experience their coming of age. This is a momentous 4-day ritual which brings the girl’s family and tribe members together for her transition into womanhood. Generation after generation of Apache women have come to these ancestral lands for this ceremony. It is a sacred place.  Oak Flat also happens to sit atop a large reserve of copper ore. This has predictably caught the attention of Resolution Copper, an Australian-owned mining corporation that aroused widespread condemnation last year for destroying several 46,000 year old Aboriginal sites in Western Australia (despite promises to protect the sites before doing so). For two decades, Resolution has been circling Oak Flat like a pack of vultures, lobbying Congress for mining rights and pumping money into the nearby town of Superior, a depressed mining town that would be the center of its mining operation. The ore is far from pure and its extraction would generate over 1.5 billion tons of waste… all for 100 million tons of copper, a 6% yield. Crucially, the extraction would create a 2-mile wide crater, entirely decimating Oak Flat in the process.  Laura Redniss’ eponymous book is compelling because it tells the story of Oak Flat from the voices of many, including folks who would stand to benefit from the mining operation, were it to go forward. While I can guess who she’s siding with, it’s commendable in that she never gets preachy or obvious. She simply lets people speak for themselves. She devotes many pages to the words of Apache activists like Wendsler Nosie and his granddaughter Naelyn Pike, who's traveled to Washington DC to speak to Congress in defense of her tribe’s sacred lands and traditions. Her first trip to Congress occurred when not long after she'd had her Sunrise Dance ceremony at Oak Flat, following in the tradition of all of the women before her.  Redniss also interviews several people from Superior, many of whom remember the town’s mining boom that lasted through the early 80s. We also hear from a young Apache man who supports the mining efforts and from the Superior mayor, among others. The land itself is given as much of a voice as possible through vivid descriptions and Redniss’ colorful drawings of the area, which are infused throughout the book.  It’s imperative to hear the testimonies of the many people who have a stake in Oak Flat. I think Redniss has done an amazing job of giving anyone she could find a chance to offer their testimony. This honesty in presentation and lack of emotional guidance makes the book far more reliable and impactful than I’d imagined it would be.  Ultimately, the question is this: is the promise of a 40-year mining operation and its predicted 2000-3000 jobs worth the permanent destruction of a people’s temple and the release of 1 billion tons of toxic waste? To me, the answer is clear, and I can only hope the Biden administration will expand protections to indigenous peoples’ sacred lands.   “Today, Congress has the opportunity [...] to tell a foreign mining company that our land is not for sale. My culture is not for sale. My religion is not for sale. My people and my future are not for sale. Congress has the opportunity to stand up for religious rights, for Indigenous culture, and for the environment in the face of certain massive destruction that will be forever.” -Naelyn Pike, 2020  
1054	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A detailed and thoughtful look into the ever-present clash of mining corporations and Native American land rights. This story centers on the Oak Flats copper deposit and the fight to keep mining from happening on Apache sacred land. but that's not all this book is about. Lauren Redniss details the history of Apache and white families in the area, how the US took over, how mining creates boom and bust cycles, often without much thought into the area after the bust, and more. The illustrations are vivid and help create a better sense of beauty and dignity of the area and its peoples.  There were two sections of illustrations that took my breath away; the images of a Sunrise Dance (an Apache coming of age ceremony for young women) and the images from Native sacred sites that have been taken over by the United States and stripped of much of their cultural significance, either through national parks or recourse extraction.  In an age of highly partisan politics, Oak Flat is a good reminder that these issues don't go away with the cycles of presidents. These lands matter to people, in various ways but how to be respectful to the land while giving people economic stability is a question with no easy answer. Oak Flat is a good to get you thinking about those very questions.
1055	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A remarkably affecting work of visual nonfiction that manages to balance its deep, nuanced perspective of the fight over Oak Flats and its immense scale, as conveyed through braided narratives of copper, indigenous history, and both Apache and mining family histories. The visuals were gorgeous and perfectly spaced, particularly the vistas that are so frequently invoked throughout the book, and even more particularly the indigenous sacred sites that Naelyn Pike (an inspirational figure in many ways throughout the book) identifies as connected to the protection of Oak Flat. The struggles are individual but connected to a larger struggle in almost every way, which is maybe why the move of starting with the formation of the universe just makes so much sense for a story like this, about copper and accumulation and colonialism. The violence of white supremacy and colonialism is acutely observed, but so is the hopefulness and richness of the Apache tribe of San Carlos, as well as the discontent among the mining town's population who have been burned by the promises of exploitative capitalism before and see the damage that has been done. 
1056	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is a book about a long and drawn out fight over something that has been going on for a very long time. For decades, a plot of federal land in southeastern Arizona called Oak Flat has been at the center of a fight over resource extraction. Since 2005, a mining venture has been pushing the U.S. government to let it excavate the site’s copper ore, which was discovered in 1995. The potential consequences of the mine go far beyond the estimated 1.5 billion tons of waste it would produce: it would destroy land that has been sacred to the San Carlos Apache tribe for generations. Oak Flat, called Chich’il Bildagoteel in the Apache language, would quite literally collapse into a void if the copper beneath it is mined. If thatwere to be allowed to happen, an important spiritual place will be destroyed. The author tells this sory in a unique way--she talks to the people who live there, whose culture is being threatened, and she does extensive illustrations of them and the land to bring home points about the story. It is a fun book to read, even though the story that is being told is a sad one. Highly recommended.
1057	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book was beautiful. But I felt scattered reading it and I don't think I left with an understanding of where the situation is and how to understand it moving forward.  “She’d tell me ‘Go get this. Go get that. Gotta run. Your body’s changing.’ running was the antidote for the aches and pains of adolescence. My mom had mostly sons, she said ‘If I didn’t make you do these things physically then you would be like a wild horse.’ She was teaching us self-control.’ - Wendsler Nosie  “The San Carlos Apache reservation was established on November 9th 1871. It is the world’s first concentration camp still existing to this day.” - Tribe’s official website  “But extermination as a policy proved to be inefficient. An education system designed to destroy native culture was proposed as an economical way to solve the Indian problem. The 1878 report concluded it costs less to civilize than to kill.”  “The report’s conjectures were treated as facts in news articles, oped essays, public statements, and testimony in congress by elected officials.”  “It’s dark underground. It’s dark in outer space. We grope around searching for meaning and treasure.” (Poem by the author)
1058	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I really wanted to love this book. I became aware of Oak Flat through murals presented as part of the Phoenix Mural Festival. What is this place? Why is it important to save it? Why is it being destroyed? I waited for months to borrow the hardcover from the library.  The facts are simple enough, and the author opens the book by walking through them. The late Sen John McCain and former Sen Jeff Flake introduced a last-minute tweak in an unrelated bill that designated a part of the Tonto National Forest to be sold to Resolution Mining to exploit what is thought to be the largest remaining copper deposits in North America. The site is also a sacred place to several bands of Apache.  The remainder of the book is a sort of look through the eyes of San Carlos Apache people at what the place means to them, and why it should be saved. But rather than bonding with the characters, I felt detached from them, and the illustrations added little value.  You can get the facts by reading Wikipedia. The narrative is OK.
1059	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Sometimes I think God directs me through Books… Where God is directing me I don't know but this is the third book I've read in the last 4-5 months that deal with the heinous and abominable extermination and continued oppression of indigenous people of North America. This book was fantastic. While I appreciated the story of Killers of the Blood Flower Moon... I felt the writing was flat at times and didn't quite contain the feeling that I would imagine it should regarding such heartbreaking history. Oak Flat... Is told buy an emotionally connected observer. And bonus the audiobook is read by the author as well as a cast of folks representing the different voices of the people who's story is being told. Unlike the other Book the story isn't just about the historical extermination and oppression of indigenous people… It is also the story of the devastation we continue to bring on our planet because we care more about making money off of its resources than living in communion with it, using only what we need, and caring for it as if we deeply believed it to be at home. 
1060	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A little hard to follow. Also, I think that is because it is real and reality is never neat and tidy. I combined the audio with loosely following along in the print book which has abstract illustrations. I especially liked the ones of places which had thinly sketched lines and distinct colors. The book follows the words of real people who are also portrayed in art work throughout the book. It did give me a lot of insight into what is happening in Chi’Chil’Bagoteel (Oak Flat). I loved the way it was so nuanced and different perspectives included (example Betom, who is indigenous but works for the mine) so that it’s not sort of sugar-coated.  “‘ People often feel guilty about their ancestors killing all those Indians years ago. But they shouldn’t feel guilty about the distant past. [Recent years] has seen a more devious but hardly less successful waterways against the Indian communities.’”
1061	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I wasn't expecting this assigned reading from my environmental class to be good.  Oak Flat is an intergenerational story following two families, one Apache and one White, as they fight against/for Resolution Copper's proposed mine in Oak Flat. There are drawings scattered throughout that vividly depict sites, often natural, that are actually fun and refreshing (I thought the cover was too lurid at first).  I'm surprised at how well Redniss covers the issue. You definitely walk away from this book with some of the nuances of the Oak Flat/Resolution Copper issue. Redniss covers many people's perspectives on the mine, some of whom have surprising perspectives.  While Redniss does good work with this book, I still wonder if White voices should be the predominant voice in publishing issues that disparately affect other racial groups. How would the book have changed if it were authored by Naelyn, for example?
1062	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This one snuck just under the wire of 2020 reads for me. This is a beautifully designed story about Oak Flat, a sacred ground for the Apache tribe in Arizona. on this particular land, there exists an untapped copper mine and the book outlines the various legal battles, cultural information, and personal accounts affected by the mining companies plans to set up shop on holy Land. Using a combination of illustrations, first hand accounts, and historical detail, including viewpoints from both sides of the issue, this book illustrates the complicated past of contested Native American lands that by all rights should have remained untouched but thanks to corporate greed and racist governmental policies, continues to be fought over to this day. Redness has crafted an important and riveting way of telling the story. I would recommend this to everyone.
1063	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book was gifted to me by Random House, and was a really great quick read. It follows three generations of an Apache family who are fighting to keep Oak Flat sacred. Oak Flat is a serene high-elevation mesa that sits above the southeastern Arizona desert, fifteen miles to the west of the San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation. In 1995, a massive untapped copper reserve was discovered nearby. A decade later, a law was passed transferring the area to a private company, whose planned copper mine will wipe Oak Flat off the map. This is the story of a family’s fight to protect their land and is story resonates with foundational American themes: the saga of westward expansion, the resistance and resilience of Native peoples, and the efforts of profiteers to control the land and unearth treasure beneath it while the lives of individuals hang in the balance.  
1064	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A fascinating look at a specific piece of land in Arizona called Oak Flat that is caught in the cross-hairs of ecological conservation, spiritual and cultural significance to the indigenous peoples that have long inhabited it, and the prospect of major economic development as the planned site of an expansive copper mine. This book is so many things – part ecological treatise, part political debate, and part historical account of the local area, its significance to the Apache tribe, and the past and present culture of the native Americans that reside at the nearby reservation. It's an eye-opening, thought-provoking, and fairly balanced look at what the land means to the native people that still consider it sacred and what the proposed mine could mean both for the natural environment and to a community that's been struggling culturally, socially, and economically.
1065	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	My mother is from this area, I grew up spending time in this beautifully harsh land. Mount Graham is the backdrop of a landscape with history I naively took for granted. So grateful to Lauren Redniss for the beautifully written book that teaches me with stories from Apache families as well as from miners in their own words as they share a difficult history carving out lives with hardships and harsh realities. There is no doubt it was a hard life for miners but the concentration camp comparison of life on the Apache reservation was no stretch, truly horrifying. The generational healing can only begin when we recognize and acknowledge the reality of our fellow humans experience and change the laws and systems that still hold down our brother and sisters. We are headed to a better future but we need to know our past to let go of ways that no longer serve our entire human family. 
1066	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I loved everything about this book! It is a powerful piece of art in every way possible. Lauren Redniss, the author, weaves together the real testimonies of Apache men, women and children who live in Oak Flat with her amazing drawings of the landscape, people, and the copper mining, and her beautiful writing, poetry, research and experiences with the Apache people. To me, Lauren is a genius in that I feel she has captured exactly what she set out to do...to explain why the Apaches are fighting for their sacred land in southeastern Arizona, but also why some Apaches are fighting for the copper mines! It was an emotional book for me, definitely made more real by words of the Apaches themselves, and also by seeing the author’s artwork. I love this book so much I am buying my own copy so I can reread it and lend it to friends to read. I am also traveling soon through that part of Arizona and plan to stop and see the town of Superior...I want to see for myself the place that evoked such emotion from me! Many many thanks to Lauren Redniss and the Apache people who shared their stories.
1067	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A nuanced and sympathetic examination of the struggle by an Apache tribe to protect sacred land from development, and those opposed to such protection because they want to promote economic development and create jobs through the construction of a copper mine that will destroy the sacred sites on that land. Framed by beautiful drawings illustrating the land, its history and use, and the people interviewed and quoted by the author in the book and their ancestors, the author sets forth the views of each side, and the history of the land and the people who live and work on it. The reader comes away with a better understanding of the controversy, and the conundrum facing those who are seeking to resolve the dispute ... what is more important: protecting sacred spaces, or economic development? And after reading this book, many readers will have an answer to that question.
1068	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is an interesting blend of interviews/oral histories, in-depth research done by the author, and illustrations. Despite having lived in southern Arizona for several years, I hadn't heard of Oak Flat prior to reading this. Through the course of the short book, the importance of Oak Flat to the Apache and the multiple crimes committed by the US against them become clear. The scale and scope of the planned copper mine is massive and, as is clear, there's no real plan for dealing with the tailings or mining waste. There's so much injustice here and it's genuinely appalling this hasn't gotten more attention.  The narrative is imminently readable though we are introduced to a lot of different people. Their stories come to life and intersect, showing the connections between everyone and the place. It's sad to think that yet another sacred Indigenous site will be destroyed by capitalism.
1069	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	i originally became acquainted with lauren redniss as an illustrator through her collaboration with the new york city ballet in 2020. her command over colored pencil as a medium is unique and striking and i’ve been a fan of her’s since. imagine my dismay to find out that she’s also an incredible writer (and also hot but that’s unrelated). this is amazing and compelling nonfiction parsed together with redniss’ illustrations. she is a talented interviewer and an even more talented story teller, creating a narrative out of many parts. i won’t lie, it’s an upsetting book, any book that really deals with the united state’s history of indigenous cultural genocide and displacement is going to be upsetting. but this highlights resilience and resistance and speaks to the hope of young people as they fight for their cultures and futures.
1070	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book is an interesting way to raise awareness of the effects of mining on Native American communities, specifically their sacred grounds. Being from the Midwest, I am not very familiar with these topics, but the thought of a mine that will eventually collapse and leave a 2-mile-wide crater gives me a lot to think about. The book also highlights the lack of respect for the Native American's religious practices.  I listened to the audiobook and looked at the pictures periodically. The illustrations are very powerful and give faces to the voices. The audiobook is very well done with different actors speaking for each person. A narrator announces who is speaking which makes it easy to follow, however in parts where the dialogue switches from one person to another every few sentences the insertion of names becomes distracting, although it is needed.  
1071	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The subject matter of this book is vitally important, but it’s organization and focus is often distracted. Some of the art is beautiful, and some of it isn’t. However, it’s visual appeal will likely draw readers who otherwise wouldn’t pick up a book like this.  The destruction of Oak Flat would be tragic, and it’s seeming inevitably is disheartening. So much of our technology demands copper, so unless we find better, less destructive ways to produce it, the fight to save Oak Flat feels insurmountable. Yet, it’s value as a sacred place, as an environmental stronghold, cannot be quantified. We must do more to demand clean, sustainable technology that doesn’t turn the most beautiful, sacred places on earth into toxic wastelands.
1072	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I listened to this book after downloading it from Libro.FM and loved it so much. I had to buy a print copy though, not just for the illustrations, but because I NEEDED it for my collection.  Beautiful illustrations help to tell the story of Oak Flat. A holy place to the Apache, the area is also rich in copper and sought out by the mining conglomerates. Oak Flat follows the stories of two families on opposite sides of the battle. Redniss does a wonderful job of sewing together seamlessly the voices of multiple generations and opposing views. While the story is current and pressing, she also captures the never-ending struggles of Indigenous people and the constant battle of protecting our land and those caught in the crossfire from companies just looking to turn a profit.
1073	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book, like a ripe watermelon, is deceptively heavy. Upon holding it, the weight seems impossible; upon reading it, the weight is impossible. Stolen land & the corporations who rape the earth play inside of beautiful scrabbling illustrations. The brokenness of America, the brokenness of even having a concept of America - when viewed through the lens of the people who were here first- becomes clear. My grandparents immigrated here in 1918, stuff in Poland was getting scary. But the greed, fear, xenophobia they fled, it’s everywhere isn’t it? We all keep looking for the perfect world where we all live in harmony but it just doesn’t exist. We can’t build anything from all this rubble. Sell everything, live in a burrow, die from cold exposure, Mother Nature wills it. I give up. 
1074	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book is an account of Apache people fighting against a new copper mine on their sacred lands. The people and the story are engaging and interesting and seeing both sides of the topic was well done. I did think that a different font/print would have been better as it is a bit difficult to read. I'm guessing that is part of the artistic quality that the author was going for to go with the illustrations.  Our library has it categorized as a graphic novel but I would not call it that. It's more of an illustrated non-fiction book. If you are looking for it in non-fiction and aren't able to find it at your library it's worth taking a look at the graphic novel section to see if it's there.  As with most topics there's more than meets the eye.......
1075	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Not a big fan of non-fiction as it feels too much like a textbook but this was a beautiful way to tell the story of a girl that was transitioning into womanhood. The traditions of the Apache people are very different than my own and I am honoured to be able to read this and catch a glimpse of how they live their life...that was before the world became too greedy with property and profit. The copper mines that are now occupying Oak Flat are annoyingly obstructive to the histories that the Apache were supposed to occupy. But I liked the book. The additions of all the different voices feels like Im being told a story firsthand. And the drawings within the physical copy are beautifully colourful helping to immerse the reader even deeper into the story.
1076	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	If there is only one non fiction book you should read this year, let this be the one. If you question the need for reparations in the U.S. this book will convince you. If you struggle to understand the role of copper mining in advancing technology this book will educate you. If you want a clearer picture of how mining rapes our land, creates ghost towns, and takes, yet again from the culture and religion of native Americans read this book. If you are trying to understand how to balance the scale between technological advances and respect for the environment and native peoples this book gives no answers but it is a well researched look at geology, the history of the Apache and the mining industry that tries to claim more and more of the American West.
1077	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This was a great book. 4.5 stars from me.  I’ve never read illustrated nonfiction as an adult so that was fun to experience. It was also rewarding to move through the book quicker than you would in a traditional book.  As far as the contents, it was fascinating to read about copper mining in Arizona and how that impacts the Apache community. I didn’t prefer that the book jumped around in time and events (Resolution Copper and telescope timelines were sometimes hard to keep track of). But I did like that it felt like I was reading a very long newspaper article. You get to hear from those directly effected but also learn about the history of Oak Flat and indigenous oppression. The snippets of interviews kept me engaged and connected to the heart of the story.
1078	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat: A Fight for Sacred Land in the American West by Lauren Redniss (non-Native) is a stunningly constructed piece of nonfiction unlike anything I’ve ever seen before. Tracking Apache and settler histories with the lands of and around Oak Flat, Redniss intersperses drawings of people, land, and space. The informative matter-of-fact tone of this book is joined by interview transcripts to create a narrative of land, of family, and of Indigenous and settler nationhood. The intergenerational nature of this book was particularly interesting as Redniss tracks white and Apache relationships to land and mining in the southwest.  At the core of this book is the opening of a large copper mine, which threatens Oak Flat while purporting to be valuable to the local economy. Within these pages are a series of claims to the land itself.  Halfway through this book Redniss writes about an Apache man we know as Geronimo. Redniss traces how naming, how remembering, is rooted in staking claims, both in the America West and in the entire United States. Names have power and the power of naming is embedded in power dynamics, in colonialism, in resistance. This is something I think about often.  In Oak Flat, Apache belonging to the land is articulated through the words of young Apache women and their family. Naming here is not staking a claim, but a way of knowing land so different from settler colonialism.  I found it difficult to keep track of some of the players in this book and at times was unsure what Redniss was trying to achieve (this could have been end of semester brain), but I was absolutely captivated by the artwork and informative tone.
1079	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"I tossed between 3.5 - 4 stars. I gave it for for the interesting portrayal of the book, with the artwork throughout adding an interesting and unique touch for a non-fiction book of this sort of subject. I understand the cause. Big corp coming in, destroying lands for the almighty $, up and leaving when the ""well runs dry"" or there is no profit in the operation any more, and leaving a mess and an indigenous population with no where to turn for in need. America has done this from the time we migrated and stepped onto this land. Hearing the voices of the concerned on both sides is interesting, although I felt it left me with no conclusion."
1080	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"Enjoyed my first visual non-fiction work from Lauren Redniss about Oak Flat, an Apache-sacred area of the Tonto National Forest in AZ. After learning about Hohokam on a recent trip to Tucson, I found this piece to be visually appealing and informative covering multiple perspectives of the Resolution Copper Company's proposed copper mine under Oak Flat. The views detailed in script format are primarily those of current generations of San Carlos Apache and residents of Superior AZ left behind after past mine ""busts"" following commodity price drops. Earth, history, tradition, religion, equity, progress and economic development are all put into the cauldron for you to consider."
1081	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book was really cool. The art was amazing and I love that the story is told from multiple sides. However, as I also associated with Redniss's Radioactive book, the storytelling can be kind of confusing. The perspectives switch in chapters, between chapters and sometimes it is hard to remember who's side you are reading. It also took me a while to connect the dots a lot when a new person or part of the story was introduced.  Overall, I do think this is a great book to understand the struggle that the Apache and many other groups face when addressing corporations, politicians, and traditions.
1082	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Excellent book about the sacred Oak Flat land of the Apache. Great artwork and a story about the Apache I didn’t know about. I certainly wasn't aware of the mining for copper that’s been close to happening there or how wrong it was to transfer the land to a company that will utterly destroy the landscape forever. While copper is necessary it’s how it’s done and the destruction of the land and poisoning that will happen that makes it very wrong. Once the mine is emptied of copper and the land completely destroyed the ones behind it will move on and all that will be left behind will be a horrible poisoned landscape forever changed.
1083	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I purchased this book in hardcover because the illustrations and text formatting were made for that experience. The mix of illustration and story brought this non-fiction book to life, and for anyone who rated this book lower because the 'pictures were terrible' then I don't think fully grasped the point of this book - that something unconventionally beautiful could be considered worth something. People see Oak Flat as a landscape that's okay being mined/destroyed because it doesn't visually please them. In addition to laying out the fight for Oak Flat you learn about Native history in Arizona, there were many things I was blind to, both in legislation and religious claims on land.
1084	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat is a great book. The book talks about the struggles of the native Americans, the apache tribe. The book takes a very dimensional look at the situation both pro and con of industry taking over native sacred land - both past and current. This is why the book is about the STRUGGLE. Also the illustrations were fantastic. The simplicity almost grandma Moses affect was perfect for the writing. The most striking illustration is when they talk of the darkness that the miners are in when there light goes out while they are in the mines - this is written in small white letters at the bottom of the page of black. A great book.
1085	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Although this isn't a happy book, I'm glad I read it. A good read for people interested in recent and historical ecological disputes, particularly related to Native land, similar to Standing Rock and the Dakota Access Pipeline.  The audiobook is read by the author, and although she obviously cares about the topic, it wasn't a superb listening experience. There are some odd pauses and cuts that should have been caught by the editing team. The author is sometimes hard to understand-- she sounds like she's talking while trying to move her lips as little as possible, so her pronunciation is sometimes muddled.
1086	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The illustrations were stunning. I kept finding myself tracing over each line with my finger, feeling the texture of the paper, feeling how the illustrations narrate the story. Artists should write, create and blend these worlds, more often.  It’s infuriating just how endless and deep the injustices flow to this day. Every day is a fight for their livelihood, their humanity, their worth. Why, after all this time, do we still not believe them?  Also, and I cannot stress this enough, screw the Catholic Church.  The only thing that left me wanting more was the ending. It just kind of… ended. I know the conflict has no resolution, but I felt like we were mid-story when the book wrapped.
1087	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This non-fiction tour of the wars and the oppression and the erasure of Native people in the United States, encapsulated by the fight to maintain the holy land known as Oak Flat, is powerful. The story is told primarily through drawings and interviews. I was engaged through the book.  The only reason I gave it 4 stars is because sometimes I got confused about which interviewee was which - however, that may be due to medical treatment I received recently that affected my short term memory.  I definitely recommend this book for those interested in the history of and the modern day battles fought by Native Americans, in particular Apache Nation.
1088	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I loved the journalistic approach to this story, along with the uniquely drawn portraits of the many folks who were interviewed. This book does a great job of concisely and directly giving insight into the struggle at Oak Flat, and the problems facing the Apache Tribe both historically and contemporarily, at the hands of the U.S. Government. The interviews help in keeping much of the narrative authority and autonomy in the hands of the various stakeholders who provide accounts of their stance in the conflict, allowing the reader to draw their own conclusions, as well as providing examples of the many motivations that folks have to join one cause or the other.
1089	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A 3.5. Gorgeous illustrations that I think carried the text in lots of places — I didn’t find her writing style as colourful as the illos and often the narrative got lost entirely (and ended particularly weakly). Begs the question of what is the purpose of this writing — is it a piece of journalism? A call to arms? It feels like neither, and that feels inappropriate given that the subject matter it’s trying to highlight (And the title!) suggests there is a thing to be done and a claim to be supported. What is the author doing after writing this book to galvanise support for the San Carlos Apache ?
1090	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This nonfiction graphic story traces one Indian tribe's fight to keep their land, especially the young woman who takes the fight to D.C. There's a place (Oak Flat) on an Indian reservation that has minerals or metals that are desirable to industry. A university already has an observatory installed there, against the people's wishes. Now government and other interests want to mine a nearby area. This is a sacred area of course, used for religious ceremonies. Yet another enraging story of how America has and continues to treat Native Americans and their rights. When published, this fight was ongoing.
1091	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"4.5 rounded up  Oak Flat is a mesa in the Southwestern desert of Arizona and a holy place for the San Carlos Apache Tribe, a burial ground and religious site. It is also one of the world's largest untapped resources for copper. And in 2014, a law was passed to transfer this holy land to a private company who will mine Oak Flat until it is depleted and collapses. This is a story we've all heard before — the prevalent mistreatment of Indigenous people and the chronic theft of their lands. But while this story sounds familiar, it's not one that is remembered because it continues to happen over and over again.  In her reporting, Redniss follows an Apache family as well as three generations of a mining family. And quickly we learn that the decisions made by a few powerful men in government and corporations affect so many individuals and communities. This book shows that no social or political issue is black or white. Each issue and each story is complicated and filled with gray area that is uncomfortable and where the truth seems to live.  This book opened by eyes to two facts. One — Obama signed this into law. The man who could do no wrong in my eyes turned this land over to a private mining company. Two — Copper is used in clean energy as well as our smartphones, high-speed internet, cars and planes. I knew this, but I didn't register it something bad since it's not a fossil fuel. And these facts left me wondering... It left me wondering about how each story, like each person, is never just about one thing. It left me wondering about my own complicity and naiveté about the choices I make, and how those choices affect people I've never met. It left me wondering what I would sacrifice for the sake of comfort or morality.  For many of us, this story ends at the last page of this book or the last word of the article you're reading. But for the San Carlos Apache Tribe and the mining communities of Arizona, this story is just beginning. If you don't read this, which for the record, I thought was a beautiful visual nonfiction with in-depth reporting done by an ""outsider"", I recommend looking up articles written about this and taking action."
1092	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"This is a very beautiful book--Redniss's ""illustrations"" carry the story at least as well as her words. But I wound up disappointed. Focusing on the struggle to open a massive copper mine on Apache sacred land, she presents a set of portraits of people representing different angles on the tension between spiritual and economic interests. There's no real conclusion, and maybe there can't be, but I wanted deeper processing. The background on Native history is fairly superficial. Disappointing."
1093	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat is a high elevation mesa in Arizona; an ancient burial ground and holy site for the Apache of the nearby San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation. It’s also a site of controversy since 1995 when massive copper deposits were discovered nearby. This is the story of the conflict between one of the poorest communities in the United States versus the federal government and two huge mining conglomerates.  Oak Flat: A Fight for Sacred Land in the American West by Lauren Redniss, is a beautiful book, like a quality coffee table art book. It’s like an art journal, history lesson, journalistic report, story of tribal customs and culture, political maneuverings and cautionary tale all rolled into one. The Oak Flat conflict is still unresolved. The author gives the POV of the Nosies, an Apache family with long established connections to the land, and the Gorhams, a long time mining family. From my white person perspective the information seemed to be presented in a well-balanced manner. However, I would be interested to read a review from a Native American reader.  The publisher calls Oak Flat a powerful work of visual nonfiction. It is that and more. It was an interesting and compelling reading experience.  
1094	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Hard to categorize this book which combines the author's graphics with the story of the Apaches struggle to stop a copper mine from being dug on one of their sacred lands. It includes the voices of the people of the small town nearest the site, which has residents both pro and anti mine, a lot of Apache history and lore, and an unfinished story, as the mine has neither been defeated nor built yet. A little diffuse in places, but an interesting way to tell this story. The book has beautiful illustrations and a lyric voice.
1095	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I live near the Oak Flat area described in this book, and wanted to understand more about the Oak Flat controversy than what is covered sporadically in the local news. I have hiked the area many times, drive through the area even more frequently, and want to learn how to help with keeping the sacred areas available for Native Americans and others to experience. The written and visual presentation caught my mind and my soul. I will seek ways to be involved after reading the book, and will pass the book along to my neighbors and friends.
1096	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	“People often feel guilty about their ancestors killing all those Indians years ago. But they shouldn’t feel guilty about the distant past. [Recent years] have seen a more devious but hardly less successful war waged against the Indian communities.” - Vine Deloria Jr.  5 stars for the stories of Naelyn Pike, Wendsler Nosie, and their family, 3 stars for Redniss’ overall organization of the book. Redniss provides so much context for the fight over Oak Flat, but in the end the book just kind of stops, and all of this context is kind of left there floating.
1097	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I caught myself thinking, “Do I like this or not?” towards the beginning. I realized by the end I was entirely absorbed. It offers a kaleidoscopic view of the people, the place, the practices, the politics, the history...everything held together in perfect proportion to keep the momentum moving swiftly. So swiftly that the ending is an unexpected burst. A gut punch. For a book that returns to the significance of colors, to end with blackness, and suggest a new type of beginning in doing so, was astonishing. Wholly unique experience. Perhaps a new type of journalism/witnessing. 
1098	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is a brilliant graphic non fiction about copper being found in Oak Flat which is land sacred to the Apache and how they fought for the mine not to be opened. I really enjoyed the art style and also the inclusion of photographs. I learnt a lot from this, especially about the history of mining in the American West and reservations and the treatment of native tribes. I also liked how some parts were interviews and there were opinions from all sides including Apache people who thought the mine might be a good thing. Highly recommend this. 
1099	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	An important story, but unfortunately the audiobook fell flat for me. That could be, however, because the interview style format didn't translate well over audio. Hearing the speakers names repeated over and over really drew me out of what their stories. I also didn't realize until after that the work is really meant to be enjoyed in a physical format, containing lots of illustrations. I've since come across other content about Oak Flats, which I look forward to reading or listening to now that I have more background information.
1100	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This was an extremely text-heavy graphic novel, written in the form of interviews/oral histories. The drawings were simplistic if not childlike, but were not strategically placed throughout this book. Often there would be one or two full page, no-text illustrations even though the next page should have been the rest of the sentence from the following page. The story of the Apache Indians and Oak Flat is interesting, and I will definitely be reading more on this subject.  Well-written, Informative, and Colorful, this is BIPOC graphic novel worth reading.
1101	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	i have a love/hate relationship with this one. i really connected with the people of oak flat and their stories but they lost me when they really got into the science and environmental impact of a possible mine in the area. as illustrated narrative non-fiction, i felt like the book did a lot more telling than showing and it just got a bit wordy and dense at times. i'm really glad i got to learn about oak flat and its history in such an in-depth way but this read took me WEEKS and i'm honestly just glad it's done. 
1102	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	3.5. The book is full of full color drawings similar to those on the cover- they are gorgeous! I was drawn to the title/cover 1st, but when I saw the book format, I had to buy it. A like they style of the book- personal narratives Interspersed with factual & historical background. It had some voices for both pro & con sides. It was a good intro to the issue of sacred land use, & I would like to learn more. However, I found the book a little scattered- some narrative seemed irrelevant to the story being told. Definitely worth reading.
1103	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I can’t believe the fight to preserve Oak Flat for both spiritual and ecological reasons is still ongoing. Current legislation acts as if the mining operation is a god-send to to the local and national economies, but it is a force of evil to indigenous tribes that still visit and revolve cultural practices around the site.  I missed out on the graphics included in this book since I read it as an audiobook, but the viewpoints of natives and mining/former-mining families in Arizona were incredibly vivid. The author maintains how strongly tied native cultures and the land are throughout.
1104	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book is beautiful; it's a work of art and a great story. The author does an excellent job blending the current story with descriptions of the ceremonies and beliefs of the San Carlos Apache that make this land sacred in their culture. She often does so through the words of members of the tribe. I found the description of the Sunrise ceremony for young women, especially compelling as expressed by those who had experienced it. This book is a beautifully illustrated and expressed reminder that we continue to ignore and respect the Native Americans' culture.
1105	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"Would love to read & give an appropriate review; However on 04/21/2020, I won a copy of ""Oak Flat: A fight for Sacred Land in the American West"" in which I have yet to receive.; Apparently others have received their books. Don't know if it is from the October/November 2020 giveaway or what. Is there anything that can be done? Very Disappointed. If I ever receive my book, I'll edit my review but as of now it stands as is."
1106	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book blew me away with its art, its careful weaving of historical and current narratives from Native Americans, rural working class Arizonans, and the legacy of mining in the West. With the fate of Oak Flat still in question (the Apache people just placed a lien on the land transfer this week!), this is an absolutely critical read. For me, it is a complete condemnation of white, Christian, capitalist supremacy. Moving and urgent. Please read this book.
1107	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I honestly didn’t know anything about Oak Flat (Chíchʼil Bił Dagoteel) which is about 50miles from where I’m currently at. Oak Flat is a sacred Mesa belonging to the Apache who were forcibly relocated to the San Carlos reservation in an attempt to eradicate the tribe. The book speaks of the history, cultural and spiritual significance of the land with focus on the ongoing conflicts between federal and Natives as RCM continuously attempt to acquire Oak Flat for mining copper. It also speaks of the living conditions on San Carlos Reservation and cultural trauma effecting the tribe.  I do recommend this read, most especially if you are living in Arizona.
1108	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I really like Redniss’s style: her art makes her storytelling so compelling. I first learned about Oak Flat from a PBS feature on the NewsHour, and I was glad to get to read this book. I felt like the narrative structure was maybe not as clear or intuitive as I would have liked. I also disliked that some of the history of Native American removal was left out. Ultimately, the story is probably best told by a local Apache themself. The book ended and I felt like something was still missing. 
1109	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Part of the beauty of this book is that the author focuses on a more female-centered perspective. This is particularly striking since women are so often relegated to the background in the telling of native american history. The story of Oak Flats is a poignant one, for a variety of reasons...one of which is that native americans have always been protective of the natural world, the author understands the gravity of this connection as the planet spirals to its end, so do its defenders.
1110	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat is sacred land to the Apache people of Arizona. The discovery of copper nearby drew transnational mining companies and led to their persistent lobbying for federal land parcel swaps. Mining would bring some jobs (for about 40 years) and a much needed economic boost to the area. But at what cost? The predicted subsidence crater would probably collapse Oak Flat and have devastating environmental consequences.
1111	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The structure of this book confused me-- introduced the issue (disputed mining territory in AZ) and key players but ended up losing its way and concluding far off-topic. Anticlimactic and, although I understand that the Apache perspective historically has been underrepresented, its one-sided presentation of the conflict via personal interview and soundbite didn't drive home the argument for the defense of Oak Flat nearly as well as it could have.
1112	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is a very straightforward, but beautifully illustrated, account of the fight for a section of Arizona that is sacred to the Apache Indians but loaded with copper ore. It looks at how the people on the Apache reservation in that area feel about opening a copper mine.There are wildly different opinions, even on the reservation. It makes for a very good reading and helps with understanding the situation.
1113	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I absolutely loved reading this book. It’s a very detailed and information-packed novel but don’t let that scare you off . The author weaves together bits of indigenous history and land disputes with expertise, creating an informative book that also manages to have a coherent through-line and intriguing narrative.  The illustrations are breathtaking and the novel is expertly crafted. If I could give it more than 5 stars, I would.
1114	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The author gives a very unbiased account of the fight of the Apache to save a sacred site from a copper mine. I learned so much about the history of the Apache, the laws the government put in place to control the Native American population, and the use of copper and other mining materials in our modern life. The illustrations of the author help to bring the story to life. I will be reading more of this author as the years unfold. 
1115	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I grew up hearing about Ray, Globe, and the legend of Apache Leap from my Grandad; so I was really excited to come across this title. I wanted to learn more about the history of Oak Flat from a side that matters most.  This is a great comprehensive history of Oak Flat through past, present, and where it might be headed in the future. I listened to the audio book and loved that the individual contributors speak to their sections of the book. I can’t recommend enough, solid 5/5!
1116	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Between the colorful artwork and compelling interviews, Redniss has done such a good job of capturing the struggle and conflict in Superior Arizona, as well the the long struggle of indigenous oppression, land rights and the environmental disasters mining has caused. It's so interesting to read about an issue that I'd never heard about, but that relates to doany of the topics discussed in our political field today.
1117	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This illustrated tale provides the perfect tone for a recounting of the conflict between the Apache tribe and the federal government for control of a sacred land named Oak Flat. There is a mining company that acquires the land set aside for tribal lands in order to mine for copper, and astronomers setting up telescopes on Oak Flat. The Apache were fierce warriors but the name is also appropriated now for products like the Apache Software Foundation which produces website servers. 
1118	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Finished in about a day. It is an engaging book full of fantastic art and fantastic people. Redniss uses historical and environmental elements to create a rich and vivid atmosphere, which helps develop the idea that this story is modern, but the struggle is not. It's predicated on literally millions of years of earthly development  As much as I'd say this is an easy book to pick up, you have to be ready to be outraged and fired up. What a great book
1119	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A different genre of book than I have ever read. It contains lots of art that illustrates the narrative. And the narrative is written in multiple voices, almost like a play or script. Oak Flat is a sacred area for the local native Americans that is being destroyed by copper mining. For some people it means a job, for others it is desecration of a way of life.
1120	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A quiet beautiful book with illustrations that dives into the impact of losing sacred land despite all efforts to mining endeavors. Laced with mythology and stories and many sides to the story about Oak Flat. The book resigns itself to its fate, but forces you to ponder the people and what they’re losing.
1121	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	While it had a strong start and very interesting subject material, the book jumps around between characters and time periods - leaving me hoping for more information on the current state. It was a bit muggy and hard to follow.  I definitely learned a lot reading it though and enjoyed the diverse set of people the book portrays.
1122	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is a powerful book. Redniss is a wonderful writer, artist and researcher. Her book offers varying perspectives on this issue. Yet my heart is sad after reading this. When did Americans lose their souls to power and greed? I now want both read her other works. She is deserving of the Genius Award. Hope to hear more from her. 
1123	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	We used to head east on Hwy. 60 right toward Apache Leap, turning south at Florence Junction....we have driven through Globe and Superior....but had no idea (other than the now defunct/destroyed smokestacks in San Manuel) of the devastation, human and ecological, left behind by mining in Arizona....  It is good to know of it.
1124	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Journalism as I have never seen! Lauren Redniss blends her artwork and text to create a stunning work about the impact of mining in Arizona on the Apache people and the Anglo community. I am sorry that I didn't finish the book - I have too many library books with looming deadlines.
1125	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Redniss has a stunning way with words. The artwork too is wonderful. Just a beautiful book all around. Though I stand with the San Carlos Apache and the protection of Oak Flat, I feel like Redniss did a good job showcasing both viewpoints. She didn't harp too heavily on the evils of the giant corporation. A very quick easy read and definitely worth the time. Especially if you're in Arizona!!
1126	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	“Oak Flat” managed to be engaging, include individual stories, community building and historical background in such a small book. I listed the the audiobook (which provided a pdf for images) and that was a great way to follow as they had many “performers” for characters and chapters. This book is great for a short history of the Apache nation and Arizona. 
1127	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The ambition of the book is inspiring: telling stories from the origin of copper in the universe, to mine worker families and Apache families, biography, portraits, architectural diagrams, and interviews are woven together to tell the story of the proposed Resolution copper mine at Oak Flat, near Superior AZ.
1128	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"As one reviewer stated earlier, this is a ""balanced, thoughtful and deeply moving investigation"" into just one example of how differently the various Native American tribes/people view place-history versus most of the current Euro-American inhabitants of this country. I learned a lot from this book and especially appreciate the author's measured approach and language. "
1129	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Wow what a unique book. I learned so much - about the Apache people, the nature of Arizona, mining, copper, etc. It’s a book that I feel like I need to discuss with people. I also want to understand how I can help Oak Flat and I’d love to see that part of the country now. Highly recommend - and the illustrations are so cool!!
1130	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	While interesting, this was too disjointed for me. I listened to the audio version, and the different character voices (always announced who they were, even if they only spoke one word) just made it to choppy and distracting. It was a good topic and a good peek into Apache culture, and the fight with big money and politicians to preserve what little is left to America’s original peoples.
1131	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Visually very unique and engaging, I was a little disappointed with the end of this work. This ends up being more of a snapshot of the various people interacting with Oak Flat and unfortunately there is no resolution to the stories of these people or the mine or anything. Still quite enjoyable and informative just lacking in tidiness. 
1132	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Really interesting and informative book. It’s written in “interview style” but shared varying perspectives and historical insight into the Native American and tribal historical and contemporary experience across the US. I really liked the accompanying drawings as well, and the tidbits about the mining towns in a larger context
1133	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"The audiobook of this is fantastically performed.  While I generally appreciated the history, and how deeply embedded both families are in their community, setting them up in opposition was strange. As the book meticulously details, no one has the same level of claim to Oak Flat as the Apache, so we don't need to ""both-sides"" this."
1134	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A respectful, nuanced, well researched portrayal of the past, present, and potential future effects of mining in south-eastern Arizona. Voices and stories of the community dominate and provide historic and cultural context. I’m making it sound dry and textbook - it is absolutely not. I listened to the audiobook and it was like listening to a 4 hour episode of This American Life. 
1135	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The author documents the struggle of some Apache Indians to protect some sacred land from a mining company. That exciting story alone is enough reason to read the book.  But the accounts of Apache history, traditions, and ceremonies bring the book alive.  This book is a fun, easy read, and satisfying lesson on the lives of one tribe of native americans
1136	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	such stunning & unique story telling. the drawings throughout the book were so evocative - quite a good balance of the mining issues and government, the beginning of Native American oppression in history& how the stems into the modern day, alongside sharing the culture of the Apache today. I only wished for a little bit more detail/content. 
1137	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I didn’t give this book sufficient attention and even with that, it was engaging and educational. Oak Flat gives a window into a specific land dispute between the government and the Apache over sacred grounds and a copper mine. Definitely worth the read to understand both some of the Apache culture and the ways greed stifles and strangles such culture. 
1138	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Really special and stunning - visual nonfiction, so narrative and interviews alongside artwork all telling the story of the San Carlos Apache and their fight to prevent the building of a mine on sacred land near Superior, AZ.
1139	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I was surprised the way in which this was written. It almost felt like a young high schooler was compiling random thoughts. The conditions that the Apache and American Natives must endure were well described. The Initiation of young women was well described.
1140	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is an amazing book. Redniss weaves together stories of Apache myth, politics, mining legislation, and more into one story. An important book in terms of environmental issues in the West. The art work is amazing as well. 
1141	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Mixed feelings. Am very familiar with the area, felt author could have given a better geographical perspective considering proximity to metro Phoenix and massive surface mining operations current in Superior region. Good insights to Apache and other Native traditions.
1142	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is the first visual nonfiction I’ve read and I thought at first it would be a graphic novel. I found some of the illustrations of people to be disconcerting and the story itself could have been a little tighter, but it wasn’t bad.
1143	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Themes of place, home, community, capitalism, spirituality, tradition, family, nature, man made extraction, livelihoods, desperation, hope, inspiration, courage, existence, suffering, beauty, connection, meaning, purpose, wilderness, cities, choices, history, family, love and survival.
1144	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is a good book, and it shows both sides of the argument. It describes the importance of Oak Flat to the tribe, and the mining history of the area. This is a good source for a general explanation of what's been happening at Oak Flat.
1145	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I live in Arizona, so that added another level of my interest in this book. Book feels like a wrong term. It's art, history, essays, interviews, and all very well done. Brings to life part of Arizona I was only slightly familiar with.
1146	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Redniss tells an epic story - and as often as possible she does this by letting the people involved speak. I appreciate how she clearly took the time to get to know the people and the communities, and how she listened with respect.
1147	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Really a great introduction into the hardships, struggles, history, and treatment of life on a reservation. Definitely opened my eyes to the true history of how the US treated and continues to treat indigenous people. I'm encouraged to read more on the topic and find ways to help. 
1148	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Wow! This is one of the most beautiful books I've ever read that includes oral histories, news releases in addition to first hand reporting. The illustrations bring this topic, the fight between the Apaches and the copper mining company, always back to the land
1149	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The mistreatment of indigenous peoples is still happening in this country and this short read is a great dive into just one story of people trying to keep their land, religion, and traditions in the face of the United States government and capitalistic greed. Fantastic on audio.
1150	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Educational, frustrating, uplifting. A really good book about Oak Flats, which has the largest copper deposit in the US and the fight of the indigenous people who want to keep mining from destroying their sacred lands. Enjoyed this read
1151	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Beautifully composed and executed look at the sacred land of Oak Flat (for indigenous peoples), that is also a feature in the lands where settlers wound up, and a resource for the destroying copper mining that is its past and (probably) future. Many voices represented. Highly recommended.
1152	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Impressively creative format. jumps between characters and context and illustrations gracefully - would have liked a more open-ended ending perhaps, but the story was memorable and touching as real as the characters are.
1153	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	An easy read/listen/reminder of American corporate imperialism, specifically towards people of Apache and their sacred sites. Audiobook recommended for this one; they used a lot of narrator voices to bring the interview transcripts to life! 
1154	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The Apache of Oak Flat AZ share their history and struggles to keep their sacred lands sacred. It's not a pretty story but we should all hear and understand our responsibility to the First Nations peoples.
1155	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Beautiful artwork and interesting non-fiction story about the prospect of a new mine opening in a boom-and-busy mining town. With beautiful artwork, and often told verbatim by the community members, this is a compelling narrative about Indigenous land rights, community, economic hardship, environmental risks, and government decisions. 
1156	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The art is absolutely brilliant, and I would strongly recommend getting a physical copy from a library to read along if you’re listening to audio of the text.  Great range of voices presented in a style that lets you become embedded in the Arizona places and people.
1157	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The audio book for this was really good, done with a full cast. I like the different perspectives shared. I liked the details of the different ceremonies and importance to religion.  I remain...frustrated at how we treat other people.
1158	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	An truly insightful yet heartbreaking reality of the Native American experience. It is a raw book and reflects true and current issues in our flawed systems, where Native Americans are concurrently fighting for justice for their people and culture. Would recommend to everyone to read. 
1159	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat is a microcosm of what has happened and is continuing to happen to indigenous people in North America whose rights/treaties are ignored. An excellent, short book covering an incident that received less national coverage than others in recent memory.
1160	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Great stories, beautiful pictures. I won this book through goodreads.
1161	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Powell's, 10/26/20
1162	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I never received my copy of Oak Flat. I'm disappointed.
1163	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Just a beautiful, beautiful book.
1164	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Stunning and informative. I want to rip out all the pages and frame them, but I won't because it's a library book.
1165	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I enjoyed the audiobook edition featuring each participant voicing their own words. Beautifully accomplished.
1166	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Educational, inspiring, and heartbreaking. Loved loved loved the illustrations.
1167	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	4.5  Beautiful book. The interviews are wonderful, and the illustrations are beautiful.
1168	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	 All in all, this is an important and illuminating piece filled with meaningful stories that are both heartbreaking and awe inspiring.
1169	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I really wanted to like this book but it was so disjointed and lacked the cohesiveness to make it truly interesting. 
1170	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Audio book. I chose this book because of the Arizona setting. The research was extensive, very interesting and well presented. 
1171	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Historical book on natives and mining industry in Arizona. 
1172	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	For some reason I thought this was going to be graphic nonfiction, but it was more like a piece of illustrated journalism. It was interesting.
1173	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Fabulous artwork and story telling is very compelling. A very good way to garner support for a worthy cause.
1174	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	As usual, Lauren Redniss has made a thing of beauty that interrogates a subject without drawing conclusions, that is so haunting it wound up in my dreamlife! 
1175	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	First person accounts of the efforts to save Apache sacred land. Perceptive, thoughtful, and captures the imagine. 
1176	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Book won in October - still not received in mid-January. Still hope to read this one!
1177	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Powerful stories about a sacred place and the strong people that defend it. The language is at times overly simple, but the storytelling style is effective and engaging.
1178	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Step one: read Oak Flat. Step two: reach out to your congressional representatives about protecting Oak Flat.
1179	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I know so little about the Southwest. This book moved quickly through time and topic all tied to Oak Flat.
1180	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Beautiful and necessary story, the enjambment's undercooked.
1181	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Library borrow...
1182	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I enjoyed the mix of artwork and the oral history vibe of this book. Beautiful. 
1183	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A beautifully designed book that I am getting into and liking very much so far.
1184	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Redniss does a fantastic job of taking a complicated situation and infusing it with humanity. The illustrations are peaceful, yet powerful. 
1185	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This fight is going on right now in the news - beautiful artwork and telling of the history and the families who are continuing to fight against a copper mine on their sacred land.
1187	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"Enlightening, informative and detailed, without being cumbersome. And my first ""visual non-fiction"" read!"
1188	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	We need more history like this in any format. 
1189	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	It's a bit ethnographic for my taste, and I actually didn't think the writing or the art were all of that. Still, it's an important story and I'm glad I read it. Very fast read.
1190	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I found this was good.  Has some really strong moments.  Good thoughts too!  Enjoyed reading this Indigenous book during the Vancouver heatwave!  3.8/5
1191	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The illustrations and design of this books are so incredibly stunning. They accentuate and highlight a simultaneously devastating and hopeful story.
1192	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Even-handed, thoughtful, carefully put together. 
1193	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Such a stunning book project 
1194	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Fascinating story  I learned about the Oak Flat controversy, plus so much more. I liked the way Redniss combined personal stories with history.
1195	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This was a beautiful book to read as it was in color. 
1196	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	What an important book!
1197	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A really interesting way to learn about the people directly affected by the mining company and the history of Oak Flat.
1199	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I absolutely loved this book. Read it in nearly one sitting. A thoughtful, creative, beautifully-illustrated discussion of land and place and culture and indigenous sovereignty. Highly recommend.
1200	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	It was a good read.
1201	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	That was so beautiful.  Important read, important stories from real people, important reminder that we are on stolen land
1202	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	November was the perfect month to read this Native American heritage book.
1203	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Beautifully illustrated. Deep reporting of two different families, a tiny town with a gritty (read: some details I did not need) past, and the fight of a lifetime to protect sacred land. This book introduced me to this issue that is now very close to my heart. I will be following this very closely.
1204	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	god i really hate it here
1205	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Won this in a Goodreads giveaway, but it never came. Tempted to rate it 1 star for that, but whatever. Just clearing out my list. 
1206	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	an insanely dimensional narrative about native american spirituality and struggle that i didn’t know about before reading. super captivating art and info that left me with a lot to think about. 
1207	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Great introduction to indigenous studies for casual (white) readers, very accessable and easy to read, and the pictures help illustrate some of the emotional points
1209	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	gorgeous creative nonfiction
1211	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I hope this makes the bestsellers. 
1212	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The artwork and story were a wonderful experience.
1213	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Powerful history and imagery. Cosmology, geography, custom + culture, history + politics, and the people voicing it all.
1214	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book is beautifully put together and researched, but it just didn't grab me in the same way that Radioactive did. 
1215	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Brilliant and priceless accounting of a people, way of life and culture. Recommend.
1216	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Beautiful and devasting look at Indigenous land and culture told through Indigenous tribe members' voices.
1217	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The format of this book made it hard for me to follow but it might work for other people.
1218	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	THE coolest nonfiction book I’ve ever read. THE coolest graphic/visual novel I’ve ever read. THE book I’ll be thinking about for a very long time. 
1219	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Vividly startling and spiritual
1221	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	i don't know how to rate a book like this, which documents so eloquently a contemporary issue that demands broader national attention. i'm deeply moved.
1223	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Insight into modern indigenous people and lovely art.
1224	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	A beautiful book full of moving stories and striking illustrations. 
1225	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	More of a work of art than a story, although I was introduced to new ways to think about the American West. 
1226	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Please check out my additional reviews at booksilove.net.
1227	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book does such a good job of digging into so many intertwining aspects of Oak Flat -- Apache culture/history, the copper/mining industry, corporate responsibility, environmental preservation/exploitation -- and examining them through different people’s experiences. The audiobook was great, with multiple narrators for different characters, but I might read the hard copy anyway because of the visuals.
1228	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Very well done! Graphic Novels - a terrific art! The story the same yet the names change. History repeats itself? Rather: Who is the real Indian-giver?
1229	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Wasn't my type of book. I read it for class. There was lots of info thrown into the story, and I had trouble following it.
1230	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Really important and wonderful read! Its format is not a gimmick but used to the author's full advantage, encapsulating the scale and voices of the issues at play. 
1231	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	interesting subject. I listened on my ipad and think might have been better to read the book.
1232	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This one was amazing. 
1233	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The more I learn about Indigenous people the more I wonder why not that many people care about their plight. 
1234	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	My first graphic novel and I did love the illustrations, but not the way the information was told. It felt so jumpy and didn't flow at all. THe information itself was great and thorough. 
1235	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Good illustrations
1236	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This was a very interesting microhistory regarding an area in Arizona that includes the sacred lands of the Chiricahua Apache Nation and the San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation. It tells the story of a small area appropriated by settlers and developed through mining, only to become abandoned once the resources were taken, resulting in one of the poorest areas of the United States. A newly discovered copper reserve has brought the area back into focus as a large mining corporation makes moves with the federal and local governments to try to acquire the land rights. The local Indigenous community takes the fight all the way to Washington to preserve these sacred lands, and the fight is ongoing as we speak. The author weaves together this history through first-person interviews with Chiricahua Apache elders and youth, local community members, and those who fight or support the mining operation. In completing the book, I felt like the information could have been organized better and although I appreciated the author's artwork throughout the book, I would have preferred to see the photographs of the area and it's community that inspired her portraits and landscapes.
1237	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	More so than a graphic novel, this read like an extended article in a magazine or newspaper with additional background context added. That meant it didn't drag, especially with the inclusion of the interviews. It was interesting, but unfortunately the story of Oak Flat is still ongoing so this doesn't have a clean or neat ending. But I definitely learned some new things about a part of the country that I have visited and found beautiful. 
1238	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Here's a new genre for you: visual non-fiction. And Lauren Redniss has provided us with a magnificent example of it.
1239	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	READ this one. You get a lot of background with a lot of stories but also art with it.
1240	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	 This book is truly a work of art. The drawings are beautiful, and the stories are so touching. Oak Flat is sacred land, but there is a mother lode of copper beneath. Naturally the copper companies want it. and try everything in hopes of overruling the tribal elders who are determined to save this small piece of land. At the time of publication, the matter had not been resolved.
1241	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"This book's genre is identified as ""visual non-fiction."" Remarkable both for the content and for the form. The story of the fight against a copper mine in Arizona, which would destroy a piece of land significant for religious and environmental reasons, is accompanied by beautiful crayon art. Not something added for illustrative purposes but part of the material in which the story itself is told, brought by the combination of words, pictures, and spatial organization of these elements on the page, to truly cosmic dimensions. "
1242	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	I’m in awe of Lauren Redniss. This is another powerful intersection of word and visual art that is storytelling for the soul. 
1243	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Washtenaw Reads Selection Committee - Super unique book about land use/rights in the west. The story comes with really personal artwork by the author. Is nonfiction, but has the feel of a graphic novel. I'm glad this came across my radar.
1244	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat is a beautiful book with a visual portrayal as well as narrative. Actually, the text varies between quotes from interviews, investigative-type reporting, and even what seems like poetry. Redniss explores two perspectives: that of the Native Americans’ struggle to preserve their sacred land, and the non-Native people of the town of Superior who want the economic boost that the copper mine would provide. Some Native Americans are featured who side with the development of the mine. There are complicated issues all around. Both sides have deep-seated connections to the land and their family ties in the area. The book is starkly enlightening about the injustices that have historically been set upon Native Americans, and that continue still. Although Redniss keeps her own voice neutral, it’s clear that this is a David vs. Goliath battle.  I love the way the book begins with creation of the earth with all its minerals, and ends again with, with Wendsler Nosie’s reference to creation. I did not know the importance of copper to our infrastructure, especially as it relates to our development of clean technology and renewable energy sources.  I enjoyed reading about the Apache culture and their celebration 0f womanhood and femininity. I'm awed at how spiritually and deeply they are connected to each other and their ancestors. I did not know about the controversy around the telescopes on Mt. Graham and the Catholic church’s involvement.  Superior, AZ has personal significance to me because my family traveled there many times from Phoenix, to celebrate holidays with my cousins who lived serially in Ray, Superior, and other mining towns during the 1960's. My uncle, Bob Winkle, was a foreman of the mines.  I loved this book, but I can't help but wonder what the Apache people involved might think about Redniss' writings and art. I would love to see such a review.  I became interested in Oak Flat because my brother-in-law is an archeologist and has participated with Native Americans in protesting the mine proposed at Oak Flat. He has put forth his expertise in defending their sacred claim. He has camped out there as one of them. I'm extremely proud of Tom Wright for that. He is making a difference here. 
1245	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Not uninteresting. I learned a lot about American Indian culture and lifestyle. I thoroughly enjoyed that. The book is a bit disjointed though. The idea of the book was nice, the drawings and the interviews, but the white people from the town were sort of despicable -- but I suppose that is us. 
1246	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	“People often feel guilty about their ancestors killing all those Indians years ago. But they shouldn’t feel guilty about the distant past. [Recent years] have seen a more devious but hardly less successful war waged about the Indian communities.” - Vine Deloria Jr., in “Oak Flat: A Fight For Sacred Land In The American West” by Lauren Redniss.  This is possibly my favorite book of 2020. It’s not only GORGEOUS, literally a work of art, but incredibly informative and engaging. It made sad and angry, but at the same time, I’m hopeful that young Apache girls like Naelyn Nosie will make a difference.  In Oak Flat, Redniss walk us through the history of this place in Arizona as witness by generations of Apache families. The genocide of Apaches in the hands of white settlers and the US government, the exploitation of its people by greedy corporations and the current fight against a powerful mining company, the Vatican and some universities for the preservation of this unique ecosystem and sacred Apache land.  I couldn’t recommend this more. I really loved it.
1247	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Read my review for the Christian Century here: https://www.christiancentury.org/revi...
1248	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Oak Flat is a beautiful mesa, holy ground and sacred land of the Apache and a place where the girls celebrate their coming-of-age ceremony. Oak Flat also shares ground with an untapped copper reserve nearby that Resolution Copper plans to dig. We are brought into the lives and stories from two different families and hear their thoughts about Oak Flat and what might happen if it's destroyed.  The fight continues between the Apache and the government to save this sacred ground before it ends up as a future sinkhole.  I thought this was a beautiful book. The illustrations added so much to the narrative. My own opinions of course are shared with the fight to save the land. The US is already turning into a giant sinkhole. We don't need one more. Let's protect what we have. Metal and money aren't going to save anyone or anything on this planet.
1249	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	The views expressed herein are mine alone and are not to be construed as official or reflecting the views of the Commandant or of the U.S. Coast Guard.  This is a book unlike anything I’ve read - hybrid graphic non-fiction, human interest narrative and review of our Native American history grafted onto an environmental and economic history of copper mining. Spiritual and compelling, it does not shy away from the dilemmas and trade offs, and pulls back from simplistic moralizing. I recommend it for anyone who wants to help educate themselves about the experiences of native peoples and inoculate themselves to unconscious bias assumptions about life - by divi deeply into lives very different from our own.
1250	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Having grown up in Canada, I’ve learned a little about Canadian Indigenous Peoples in school and the horrific history they’ve endured that continues on even today. So this book was an interesting perspective to learn about the Native American Apache people and the battle they are fighting today for Oak Flat. I liked hearing the two sides of the story: the Apache people fighting for the preservation of this sacred place; and the citizens of the nearby town hoping for revitalization to support the livelihood for their and future generations. There are many similar debates taking place around the world, that unfortunately does not have a simple answer for.  Follow me on IG @whatsissyreading.
1251	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	Initially I developed an interest in Oak Flat from recent news articles about the proposed copper mine vs. the environment and Native American Apache culture. So when I discovered this book I read the Kindle edition. It is nicely illustrated and, although it sides with the Apache interests, it is refreshingly free of the polemics that often accompany these topics. It discusses what Oak Flat means to several generations of locals, both native and non-native, letting them tell their own stories as they share meaning, memories, and experiences of Oak Flat and of the once prosperous Superior mining community no longer what it once was.
1252	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	"Proof that ""a picture is worth a thousand words"" isn't confined to photography. Poetic visual and textual storytelling highlighting the greed with which we, as a nation, have the nerve to consider the rapacious exploitation of land so essential to faith that they are directly intertwined with the concept of identity itself."
1253	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This book was great to read as I live in Arizona and am familiar with a lot of the local stuff this book talks about. It’s a beautifully illustrated book with storytelling that is admirable. You hear from all sides of the conflict but ultimately you will pick one to side with. One of my picks for Native American Heritage Month and did not disappoint. 
1254	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	4.5 stars! This is a beautiful book that tells such a sad story. At times the story seems to flow seamlessly from prose into poetry and back again. It works! The art work that accompanies the story is wonderful. It makes the book richer.
1255	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	This is the story of one Apache community and their struggle, but I believe it mirrors the struggle of almost every indigenous US tribe.  This should be a required read for all inhabitants of the American west!
1257	Oak_Flat:_A_Fight_for_Sacred_Land_in_the_American_West	More art stitched into the framework of nonfiction, please. 
1258	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I have little to no interest in professional wrestling but this book was recommended to me by so many people I couldn’t help but give it a chance. I’m so glad I did, as it was truly excellent.  The artwork was fantastic; the illustrator managed to convey an emotional subject beautifully. Despite my lack of interest in wrestling, I couldn’t help but be moved by this genuinely deeply moving autobiography of a man struggling to live with acromegaly and battling with substance abuse and a life lived in the spotlight and all that brings. It probably didn’t hurt that I also live with a congenital chronic pain condition and am not the smallest of men myself.  I am not ashamed to say I shed a tear or two at the end. Don’t think you’d have no interest in this if, like me, you don’t give a Dougal-flip about wrestling. This is a human story that transcends the protagonist’s profession.
1259	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Excellent graphic novel about the life and career of André René Roussimoff, better known as André the Giant.  I was a fan of wrestling as a kid, even went to a WWF show with my dad and some of my friends, which is something you won’t get a lot of chances to do if you are living in Germany. But you do not have to be a fan of wrestling to enjoy this book. I myself haven’t been one for decades now.  This is a very humane, emotionally engaging story of a man that was suffering from acromegaly, got stared at wherever he went, was looking for a place where he would fit in, found said place, became a huge star and then struggled with both his fame and with chronic pain.  After a brief look at his not so easy childhood the book tracks his career from his beginnings and early successes in France, to his time in Japan and ultimately his huge success in North America, where he was the biggest star of the wrestling world at the time when wrestling itself became a huge thing. His forays into Hollywood are shown as well as the worlds of wrestling and boxing coming together. We learn about his relationship, friendship really, with his first manager and see the changes, not all of them good, that Vince McMahon Jr. brought to the world of wrestling when he took over the WWWF from his father. I learned quite a bit about the history of wrestling here.  Through all this we see André’s struggles both with alcohol and his body and the constant pain it was causing him. We see a giant with a big heart, although sadly one that was not big enough for his huge body.  Reading this made me quite emotional, and I almost shed a tear towards the end. The only thing I feel is missing here is a more in-depth look into his family-life. After the heartfelt foreword written by his daughter, I expected to see a little more of this. But then again, his daughter herself only saw him five times in her life. I would have liked to learn a little more about the reasons that made it so difficult for him to connect with his child and her mother. The reasons for their initial estrangement are given, but I reckon it must have weighed on his mind more than is shown here. Or maybe I’m misjudging him in that regard. I don’t know.  Therefore, 4 stars.     Thanks, Paul, for bringing this to my attention. And thanks, mom, for gifting it to me for my birthday.
1260	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"Easton's and Denis Medri's version of Andre was released in November 2o15. Box Brown's version Andre the Giant: Life and Legend was released in May 2104. Do we need two comics biographies of a ""pro"" wrestler? Especially given there are already a dozen other biographies of him out there? Oh, why not. Brown did the story and the illustration in his bio, and in this one Easton tells the story and Medri does the artwork, in somewhat similar style. I do not have Brown's version in front of me, but glancing at my and other reviews, the art and storytelling styles seem similar.  And the purposes of the two comics biographies seem similar, to somewhat romanticize the literally larger than life World Westling Federation hero. Sure, tell about the excesses, the huge drinking and eating feats, the womanizing, but couch those facts in the larger picture of him as a nice guy who we still love for his WWF feats, his appearances on tv, and of course, his role in The Princess Bride. And his engagements with the other WWF name you recognize is featured, and largely concludes the story: Hulk Hogan.  This one tells less about Princess Bride and more about an appearance on The Six Million Dollar Man. We learn more about his relationship with his manager. We learn very little, for WWF fans, about his signature moves: The Body Slam, The Bear Hug, The Multiple Turnbuckle Thrusts (look it up if you don't believe me! I did!). But I think people maybe don't care about that as much as his general image as a 7'4"" giant, who at his death weighed more than 500 pounds.  The subtitle, Closer to Heaven, calls attention to the romanticizing: ""Closer to heaven"" is what a woman once said to him about his height, and sure enough, he died early at 46. Also, the preface is written by his largely abandoned daughter, who just might be the central reason we might not like him. Why not keep in regular touch with her, at least? Her preface works as a kind of forgiveness, I guess, a coming to peace with them. In truth, a lot of 24/7 celebrities don't do well with parenting. Remember Mommy Dearest?  This is a well told end executed biography. I am indifferent to the WWF. But I like these stories of him quite a bit. And they make me a little interested in pro wrestling as a cultural phenomenon. A little!  Andre reminds me a little of Matt Kindt's 3 Story: The Secret History of the Giant Man. It's this fascination with real life giants and how separated they are from us regular sized folks. I round up from a 3.5 rating because I just feel like it.  This is Andre's official website:  http://www.andrethegiant.com"
1261	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Review written! But I have to say right here, right now, that this moved me.  Andre the Giant was one of my childhood heroes. Hells, I named my puppy for him! (That may not mean much to some people, but my Andre is a service dog to me, and as important as any of my kids.)  Andre the Giant was a giant of a man, and one that lived - really lived. After reading this, I can confidently say my childhood hero is still one of my biggest heroes, and a enduring symbol. I can't help but hope that he knew how much he meant to kids like me, and that his legend lives on.  <3  Read the full review here: https://ermareads.wordpress.com/netga...
1262	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A surprisingly good read! My older brothers watched wrestling when I was young, so I was aware of Hulk Hogan, Rowdy Roddy Piper, and, of course, Andre the Giant. I love graphic novels, I love memoirs, I love Fezzik, and even though I don't love wrestling --I borrowed this hoping to be entertained. I was! -- and then some!  Heart warming. I'd definitely recommend it.  
1263	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Andre the Giant's story makes me sad, and it seems like everyone else is all upset about one thing or another right now. I'm not sure what, exactly. Nobody is tweeting about it or posting a bunch of text in Instagram stories that I try to read in the allotted 30 seconds. Sure, you can tap and pause it, but that makes it less like watching TV, and I like watching TV.  Guys, maybe Instagram isn't a good medium for text.  Anyway, I decided to jump on the sadwagon and read another comic biography of Andre. This one's good. The Box Brown one is also really good. I think most people don't need to read both, they cover a lot of the same territory. It's sort of like when two asteroid movies came out the same year. In fact, Box Brown's book came out mid-2014, this one in 2015, so in all likelihood they were being made at the same time.  Why did I read both? Because I got a new tablet computing device that's capable of reading comics from the library. Whoa. Damn right, whoa.  Now, before you get all excited, it's a cheapie. It was like $100. Which maybe isn't cheap for some people. Tell you what, if you're reading this on a gizmo that retailed for less than $100, I will personally apologize. Comment below.  Most of why I wanted this tablet was to read comics. Also partially to watch a Japanese television show that I've tried really hard to buy legitimately, but only found a few places, and I can't tell if there are English subtitles because I can't read the Japanese item description. It's possible to torrent this show, but I don't know how to do that, nor do I know how to do that without getting my internet taken away. Which might be kind of awesome at this point because I wouldn't be able to work, but less awesome because while I wasn't working I couldn't watch Project Runway seasons from 10 years ago.  Anyway, if someone can torrent this for me and give them to me on cd-rom, it would be much appreciated, but also probably illegal, so don't do it, and I'm definitely not asking people for that on a public forum here. Just saying that I would appreciate that sacrifice.
1264	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Andre the Giant: Closer to Heaven is a graphic novel released by IDW Comics written by Brandon Easton with art by Denis Medri.  Andre Roussimiuf was born in a small French town where he lead a plain but harsh farm life until he was recognized for his exceptional height as a young teenager. He started wrestling as a career where his size and talents took him from France to the rest of Europe to Japan to the United States. Eventually adopting the moniker Andre the Giant, he became one of the most famous wrestlers of all time and a cultural phenomenon. Troubled by alcohol addiction and pain from his condition, Andre lead a dark private life until he came to peace with himself late in life. This book details many of Andre’s most famous and infamous moments in an emotional journey of a man who was too large for this world.  Last year I read the graphic novel Andre the Giant: Life and Legend by Brian “Box” Brown. Both books cover largely the same tales from Andre’s life. Life and Legend focused a bit more on the start of his wrestling career and his time working on The Princess Bride where as Closer to Heaven tackles a bit more about his addiction to alcohol and relationship with his original manager and Vince McMahon Sr. Both are a great look at the larger than life individual who revolutionized the sport of professional wrestling. Both books seem to underscore Andre’s faults of womanizing (and possibly more) as well his actions while intoxicated. These behaviors are largely swept under the rug in order to focus more on the grandiose aspects of his life and his impact in Hollywood and wrestling.  Both books have a unique art style with Life and Legend adopting a black and white cartoon style and Closer to Heaven taking on a sketchy and caricature like appearance to the characters. My biggest gripe with Closer to Heaven is that the entire book is colored in sepia and muddy tones. There is very little color pop throughout the book. I think a different approach to the coloring could have made this book stand out a bit more.  While I enjoyed both books, I believe Life and Legend is slightly better. As a wrestling fan, I don’t think you could go wrong with reading either book though.
1265	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"~Netgalley Synopsis (because it's better than the Goodreads one)~     ""He was one of the greatest performers in sports entertainment history, but his legions of fans around the globe barely know the man behind the legend of Andre the Giant -- until now!     Jean Ferre. Monster Eiffel Tower. Fezzik. These were alter egos for the internationally acclaimed pro wrestling superstar known as Andre the Giant, who thrilled audiences worldwide with his unmatched charisma and remarkable athleticism. Despite his astonishing popularity, few really knew the man behind the curtain -- the man born in the French countryside named Andre Roussimoff. Showing signs of gigantism at an early age, Andre decided to use his size to his advantage and entered the wild world of professional wrestling. From his first day in the squared circle, those close to him knew that a legend was born. This lavishly illustrated authorized biography of Andre the Giant charts his entire life from the earliest days on his family's farm to his blockbuster feuds with the biggest wrestling stars of all time, exploring the dark side of fame and fortune along the way.""     ~My thoughts~     This is one of the rare interesting non-fiction graphic novels I happened to stumble upon. Somewhere around Christmas, I finally watched The Princess Bride, after having it on DVD for about 8 years now. An episode of The Goldbergs gave me the signal that it was time. After seeing the movie (which is great by the way) I was interested in getting to know more about André the Giant, so I read a couple of articles on the internet and watched a few Youtube videos. The general opinion that I seemed to come across was that André was a giant asshole with a poor sense for personal hygiene. So when I saw this book, I felt like this would be a great opportunity to learn more of the true story. It did not disappoint.     The novel starts off with a foreword from André's daughter, Robin Christensen Roussimoff. It drew me right in. The foreword ends with:    ""I hope when people read this graphic novel, they will get answers not only to who Andre the Giant was as an entertainer, but who Andre Roussimoff was as a person.""   I think it very well did.     A lot of the novel involves André's wrestling career and lots of names and facts were dropped on the reader. This could be a bad thing if you're really not into the wrestling scene. However, I'm not into wrestling at all and I found it truly fascinating to learn about it. Who knew there was so much theatrics involved! I didn't. I learned that the Japanese wrestling scene added a lot to the Western one. I learned how Wrestlemania and Hulk Hogan grew to be as famous as they are now. Very interesting! I'm pretty sure the combination of all these info dumps in a graphic novel is what does the trick. I highly doubt I would've enjoyed it this much while simply reading about it in a regular novel.     Another thing which makes it all so vivid (as opposed to boring) is that the author chose to tell the story from André's point of view, which makes it a very personal experience. His thoughts are a red line throughout the book.    ""Even at that young age, there was a part of me that was monstrous. Not in temperament, but in how others saw me.""   It's really touching to see him reminisce about his past.        Incorporated pieces of a letter his daughter wrote to him gave it an extra layer of emotions. Even though I already knew he passed away at the young age of 46, alone in a hotel room in Paris after having attended his father's funeral, I still almost had to shed a tear when the novel ended with André stepping in his bed.     The graphics style in itself isn't something I'd usually go nuts about, but for the purpose of telling this story, it was perfect. Colourful, but not too colourful to draw away the attention of what's going on.        After having read this book, I look at André now as a friendly giant, but definitely not a stupid one. His gigantism, acromegaly, strive for happiness and lack of moderation are what make his life a sad story, but never a truly depressing one due to the enthusiasm for his work, both as an actor and professional wrestler.     I'm giving this 4.5 brownies because it left such an impression on me that I won't likely forget about anymore.     I'm ending this post with  a clip of a famous match between André and Hulk Hogan. Eventually, André gave up his spot to Hogan by intentionally losing matches. When I occasionally saw wrestling matches on TV, I'd flip the channel, going ""Ugh, gross.""  But after reading this book, I can see the entertainment of it. It's all a big show instead of just some brutal fighting.   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q7Zh0...  An ARC of this book was provided by Lion Forge via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review."
1266	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I know this is the book with his daughter's endorsement and she calls it more accurate. It feels less honest to me, because written in the first person and being fairly philosophical, it feels like it is pretending to know things it can't.  That doesn't mean that it's badly written and there are some things that are touching. However, the Box Brown book, with an outsider view trying to understand him, felt more honest.  I am impressed how the art does resemble most of the people involved, but the depiction of Vince McMahon Jr just doesn't.
1267	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"I received this book from Netgalley in exchange for an honest review. This does not affect my opinion of the book or the content of my review.  I remember Andre the Giant from cartoons and Princess Bride, and after reading As You Wish: Inconceivable Tales from the Making of The Princess Bride (which I loved) I had to request this from Netgalley when I saw it. The book about the making of Princess Bride had so many stories and memories from his cast members about him that I was curious to learn more about his story.  The artwork is clean and simple, and the text is a mix of dialogue and short paragraphs to detail various parts of his life. There's a lot of text for a graphic novel, but I didn't find it too dry of a read or anything. It flowed really well.  I was also surprised by some parts of it that I wasn't aware of before -- his daughter Robin and what happened with her mother. I really wish that more would have been gone into there, but it's mostly summed up in a short ""letter"" from Robin to Andre. It was sad seeing him trying to find that missed out on relationship in other places.  It's very heavy and extensive on the wrestling parts of his career. I knew some from reading As You Wish: Inconceivable Tales from the Making of The Princess Bride with his childhood and all the struggles he faced, and the pain he had to live with.  If you're curious at all about him, it's a good and quick read."
1268	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I have been a wrestling fan for a long time and remember the feud between Andre the Giant and Hulk Hogan. I also know how much respect many of the wrestlers have for Andre the Giant. This graphic novel was relatively short but with a lot of information. I did not really know the story of Andre and was actually a little teary during a couple of sections in this story. Andre Roussimoff made the best of a bad situation. He was a huge boy and man who tried to make a living the best way he could. I enjoyed reading about his journey, his daughter, his struggles and his triumphs. The forward from his daughter was very touching. I would recommend this book to any wrestling fan and to those who like biographies. Younger readers might need a little background information before reading this story, but I think they would enjoy it as well.  I received a copy of this book from netgalley in exchange for an honest review.
1269	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Andre the Giant’s road to wrestling stardom was one filled with pain, unhappiness, excessive drinking, and tough choices. Starting out as a farm boy in France, he fell in love with professional wrestling in his teen years when he’d see these small shows performed in front of live crowds. Needing an escape from feeling like a freak, he used his massive size to his advantage and started his long hard road to becoming one of the biggest legends in the wrestling industry. He traveled all over the world wrestling matches that stunned spectators until he made it to the multi-billion dollar World Wrestling Federation. His larger-than-life star power would become immortalized with his matches against Hulk Hogan, The Ultimate Warrior, and many other future Hall of Famers. He died in 1993 due to complications with his gigantism, but he will never be forgotten.  Graphic novels and comic books alike get bad reputations for being ordinary picture books for kids (that was a dig at you, Bill Maher). This graphic novel in particular is much more than that. It’s a well-written biography with dialogue and narration any reader can get behind. I especially liked the part where the old lady at the fairgrounds told Andre that he’s “closer to heaven” because God doesn’t have to reach down that far to touch him. That simple act of kindness helped Andre feel like more than just a sideshow freak. He was a human being with real emotions and real struggles, just like any other regardless of size. The dialogue and narration help convey that message perfectly. In other words, he’s a three-dimensional character within the confines of a greater story.  Just like all three-dimensional characters, Andre had flaws underneath all of his stardom. He was so young and egotistical that he thought he was invincible, so he turned to drinking and telling inappropriate jokes to keep up this appearance. Partying was a huge part of the wrestling industry and some people succumb to their vices easier than others. In Andre’s case, his alcoholism led him to complicate his gigantism, where his bones were already aching and he needed so many surgeries that he lost count. Despite his flaws, it’s impossible to hate Andre the Giant as a character. He is, after all, human. He still feels guilty during his times of sin, especially as it relates to his estranged daughter Robin, who penned an emotional letter to him while he was away. This is a reminder that nobody is invincible no matter how big and strong they are. That’s true storytelling at its best.  In addition to his struggles with his physical health, his emotional health took a toll on him as well. Despite being a mega star every country he wrestles in, he couldn’t find his permanent happiness. He took the little things for granted until it was almost too late to appreciate them once again. Being able to catch up with his friends back home in France was a huge emotional boost for him. Forging new friendships with his business manager and his bosses helped keep him in check. Being able to shoot movies and work with friendly actors helped him escape from wrestling when he needed to the most. In the end, being happy is all that matters in this world. If you hate life with a passion, you can’t be like Andre the Giant and be “closer to heaven”. It’s not a religious thing. It’s common sense that we all push aside at some point down the road. The key is to remember who we are and why we do what we do.  As short as this graphic novel is and as easy as it is to poke fun at the wrestling genre (again, I’m looking at you, Bill Maher), Andre the Giant: Closer to Heaven is a brilliantly-written piece of art that should be appreciated by wrestling and non-wrestling fans alike. It’s not just a biography of a pop culture icon. It’s a story. A real, living, breathing, three-dimensional story about a human being overcoming gargantuan obstacles. A passing grade is what this graphic novel deserves.
1270	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"This is a lovingly rendered account of the man, the myth, the legend, Andre ""The Giant"" Roussimoff. Sussing out fact from fiction is a challenge in even the best of conditions but in the world of professional wrestling it is exponentially difficult. By its very nature, this world is one of secrecy that relied on the grift to con its audience. In this orbit, Andre was a true pioneer. It is said the best wrestling gimmick is one in which the performer is mostly themselves with the volume turned up to the maximum level. Andre certainly lived up this tendency and as this book demonstrated it was often inside and outside the ring.  Andre the Giant was essentially a bridge between two eras of wrestling. He combined the technical ability and realistic violence of the territorial days with the showmanship and splendor of the ""sports entertainment"" personified by Vince McMahon's WWF/E. It is important to note that he was not merely some freak of nature or a clumsy performer that could barely lace up his boots. He was not a Giant Gonzalez or Silo Sam whose lugubrious performances brought great shame into the squared circle. Andre was an athlete who could perform a standing drop kick or even chain wrestle when called upon. Along with his multitudinous athletic gifts he was also a fair and courteous gentleman who despite his stature treating most of his fellow wrestlers with kid gloves. Though there are a few stories of someone crossing Andre and getting their comeuppance, these were fairly rare.  Outside the ring, it is said that Andre lived the life of a giant even more than inside of it. This is where this novel really shines. Whether it was his humble origins in the bucolic French countryside , his pursuits in Hollywood, his gentle nature around younger fans or even his alcoholism, this book nails the man that is Andre Roussimoff. Stripped of artifice, we learn that Roussimoff is in physical and mental pain. Despite living a life of extreme excess, he is oftentimes depicted with a sense of longing. He has a daughter who he does not know and is estranged from, a drinking problem, multiple maladies and a burgeoning death sentence brought upon by his gigantism (acromegaly). The book also does not sugarcoat that wrestling was oftentimes a cesspool of misogyny and racism, where ring rats and confederate flags were a way of life. Andre took part in both: telling off color racist jokes and having groupies in every town he performed.  I really loved this book and I applaud the authors and artists for their talent. They were able to capture the many sides of Andre while being true to how he was as a performer and as a person. He was a man with many foibles and talents that extended beyond the squared circle. He could be gentle and generous one moment and the next be vindictive and violent. In a world that celebrates deception and bullshit, he was the most uncommon of things, and that is he was genuine, he was unique and he was the ""Real McCoy""; there will be other giants but there will only ever be one Andre ""the Giant"" Roussimoff."
1271	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	This was a touching memoir/biography of Andre the Giant. I’ve never been a huge wrestling fan, but growing up in the South and being a teenager in the 80s & 90s, you don’t not know about Andre the Giant and Hulk Hogan. With The Princess Bride being one of my all time favorite movies, I’ve learned a lot about Andre and his character as a man through my devouring of all things Princess Bride. This was a nice back story of his early life and his career in wrestling. 
1272	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Great artwork and an interesting story. However, it was too much life to cram into too short of a book. Plus, I was disappointed that they focused so much on Andre's drinking when I have heard that he refused surgery for his acromegaly and that was a huge factor in his decline in health. 
1273	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Andre the Giant has always been one of my favorite wrestlers! Such a shame all the pain and heartbreak he had to go through. He brought so much joy and entertainment to millions. Definitely a gentle giant. Princess Bride is one of my favorite movies as well just because he was in it. 
1274	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"First off, full disclosure: Writer Brandon Easton is a longtime friend of mine. I remember when I first met him fifteen years ago in graduate school, and he was ""just"" an aspiring creative type. Well, now Mr. Easton has written a truly fantastic work of biography, and he should be extremely proud of himself.  Andre the Giant: Closer to Heaven, as the title makes clear, is a graphic-novel biography of wrestler, actor, and entertainer Andre ""the Giant"" Roussimoff, from his youth in rural France to his untimely death in 1993. What makes Closer to Heaven different—especially as compared with Box Brown's graphic-novel biography of Roussimoff—is that Closer to Heaven is an authorized biography, written very much in collaboration with Robin Roussimoff, Andre's daughter. As a result, Closer to Heaven feels throughout as if Roussimoff himself was speaking with the reader; indeed, Mr. Easton's narrative style is in the first person. And what makes this authorized biography especially good is that Mr. Easton doesn't mince words around Roussimoff's alcohol problem or his virtual abandonment of his daughter.  Those familiar with Andre the Giant through the film of The Princess Bride most likely have an impression of him as an incredibly gentle human being, at least outside the wrestling ring. (Mr. Easton shows multiple times that Roussimoff could be—and was—quite tough inside the ""squared circle"", however.) Roussimoff's costars in that movie generally concur. Mr. Easton's tone throughout Closer to Heaven reflects this, wherein even as he details the start and finish of violence in the ring, the ""speaking voice"" of Roussimoff never deviates from that of gentility. Just as Roussimoff in real life conveyed an air of sweetness, kindness, and gentleness, so to does Mr. Easton write Roussimoff's dialogue and monologue as sweet, kind, and gentle, at least in his everyday life. I smiled warmly several times as I read Closer to Heaven as a result; Mr. Easton does an excellent job in portraying Roussimoff's approachability, at least as much as those not close to him could get.  As for artist Denis Medri's art in Closer to Heaven, Mr. Medri does a remarkable job in conveying the nature of Rossimoff's existence. Mr. Medri draws Roussimoff as larger-than-life, as he was to a great extent, and Mr. Medri collaborates fantastically with Mr. Easton in showing this: Witness the dinner table early in the book piled high with empty plates. Never do Messrs. Easton and Medri tell us of Roussimoff massive capacity for eating; they show us, without words. Colorist Davide Caci deserves credit as well for his sepia palate, which adds to the overall tone and effect of the graphic novel.  I've already read and rated Mr. Easton's prior graphic novel Shadowlaw, and I definitely enjoyed it. With Closer to Heaven, however, Mr. Easton (a fan of the Baltimore Orioles, so he'll appreciate this metaphor) hits it out of the park easily. Closer to Heaven is a worthwhile addition to any library, whether of graphic novels or in general, and it is excellent storytelling made all the more impressive because it's a true story.  And I'm not just saying that because Brandon's a friend of mine. "
1275	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"My only real experience with Andre the Giant is from The Princess Bride where he played the giant Fezzik. This was and remains one of my favorite movies so there is a special place in my heart for him. But it wasn't until very recently (I'm talking the last year or so) that I found out he was way more famous for being a Pro Wrestler than the lovable giant I was used to.     I have some mixed feelings about this graphic novel. On one hand, this is a person I am interested in and enjoyed learning more about. On the other hand, this read more like a really straight forward biography in prose form. Which was pretty dry to read.     I did like the artwork. Very understated and clean.  [image error]  But in the end I was left feeling a bit ""meh"" about this one despite my interest in Andre himself. I'd highly recommend this if you are a fan of his wrestling work since it does go into the details of his career and his impact on the sport in general, but I'm not sure there is much here for anyone else.     Copy courtesy of Lion Forge, via Netgalley in exchange for an honest review."
1276	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"Andre the Giant. As far back as I can remember there's been the legend of Andre the Giant. It took a brilliant movie though to make me fall in love with this gentle giant; The Princess Bride brought him fame outside the wrestling world when he played the sportsmanlike Fezzik.  Miracle Max: Go away or I'll call the Brute Squad. Fezzik: I'm on the Brute Squad. Miracle Max: [sees Fezzik] You *are* the Brute Squad!  Gigantism was both a blessing and a curse, it brought world-wide fame and fortune to Andre, but in the end it took his life at forty-six. This authorized biography of Andre Roussinoff worked well in the graphic novel format. It's honest, well drawn and filled with details from his birth and childhood in the French countryside, to his life on the circuits and in Hollywood, and offers a concise history of the wrestling industry from 1963 through 1987 when he handed his legacy as the world's greatest wrestler over to Hulk Hogan at Wrestlemania III in front of 93,173 screaming fans.  ""The true art of professional wrestling is to simulate violence and transform it into theater."" Who knew?  I received a copy of Andre the Giant: Closer to Heaven from netgalley and Lion Forge Comics in return for an honest review."
1277	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	What a wonderful book. I've read another recent graphic novel on Andre, but this one is even better! The art is absolutely fantastic! The book tells the story of Andre's life from childhood to death from his own point of view. It was great to see the first three Wrestlemania's covered as these were my hey-days when I was a wrestling fan back in the '80s. I pretty much already knew the story of Andre's life but this is a book that embraces him and tells his own bittersweet story. The Foreword is written by his only daughter, Robin Roussimoff.
1278	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	This is a great graphic biography of mythic, larger-than-life character. It is funny, sad, encouraging...it is a fun read. Some of the drawings would be worth having as prints to frame and display (Inoki and Ali, on the set of The Princess Bride, Andre and Henan riding out at WM3, and others). Well worth grabbing a copy!  I received a review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
1279	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	This was really good. A well written narrative of Andre The Giant's life. Very informative and interesting. If You don't know much about Andre, or if you do, this is a great read. If You're a wrestling Fan, Definitely read this. Artwork was well done.  I received an advanced copy of this from NetGalley.com and the publisher.
1280	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A serviceable biography of a unique performer, but I think the Box Brown graphic novel was better.
1281	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	absolutely touching look into the extraordinary life of a French farm boy turned legend.
1282	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"This is as heartwarming/heart-wrenching a telling of Andre the Giant's life as a compact graphic novel would allow. Written in the first person, as if reminisced by Andre Roussimof (the man's actual name) on the last day of his life, it remains firmly in PG territory, but does not gloss over the nasty parts as far as that allows.  Not for nothing, Andre the Giant's life story is inextricably tied to the story of modern pro-wrestling and its evolution: he was the flagship wrestler that made it all possible. Oh, it took an endless succession of promoters, businessmen and historical coincidences (such as the massive boom of pro-wrestling in Japan) to make it happen, but it is very likely none would have been inspired to do so if not for this literal giant of a man, straddling the worlds of folkloric legend, sideshow freak and athlete with his massive frame.  Andre the Giant was a sort of folktale incarnate, changing himself as the story framing his wrestling career changed to sell more tickets and draw larger crowds. If Big Fish had been a movie about the narratives and history of wrestling, it would have starred Andre the Giant.  The comic also does an excellent job of faithfully depicting the various actors of the story (other wrestlers, promoters, and people of consequence to the events), without deviating from its chosen style. You would think Antonio Inoki's shovel of a jaw is an exaggeration, and you would be very much mistaken. To the same degree, it also effectively depicts Andre's physiological changes as his acromegaly advanced.  One thing that doesn't work very well is the lettering, either because of positioning, or the color of the letters mingling with the rest of the panels. Furthermore, most of the maps appearing throughout the comic do not serve to really explain anything, but there are not that many in any case.  One of the things repeatedly stressed throughout the comic is the inaccuracy of pro-wrestling's criticism for being fake, beyond the predetermined result of matches. Here's a strange and interesting thing. I found and watched many of the fights mentioned within, some of which were supposed to be truly brutal. With today's eyes, most look so fake that it makes you wonder how anyone could believe otherwise, or even get pumped about them. And yet, I remember my young self totally believing that the Undertaker had killed Ultimate Warrior.  Perhaps suspension of disbelief did not require as much before the internet (that was 1992), and definitely even less in the mid '70s. Perhaps the unspoken ""contract"" between pro-wrestlers and audience, along with the frantic ""sportscasting"", resulted in enough brain chemicals to make it all seem briefly real.  In any event, this was a truly enjoyable comic that manages to convey and evoke true emotion. That, in and of itself, is a true rarity nowadays."
1283	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	(I received a free copy of this book from Net Galley in exchange for an honest review.)  He was one of the greatest performers in sports entertainment history, but his legions of fans around the globe barely know the man behind the legend of Andre the Giant -- until now! Jean Ferre. Monster Eiffel Tower. Fezzik. These were alter egos for the internationally acclaimed pro wrestling superstar known as Andre the Giant, who thrilled audiences worldwide with his unmatched charisma and remarkable athleticism. Despite his astonishing popularity, few really knew the man behind the curtain -- the man born in the French countryside named Andre Roussimoff. Showing signs of gigantism at an early age, Andre decided to use his size to his advantage and entered the wild world of professional wrestling. From his first day in the squared circle, those close to him knew that a legend was born. This lavishly illustrated authorized biography of Andre the Giant charts his entire life from the earliest days on his family's farm to his blockbuster feuds with the biggest wrestling stars of all time, exploring the dark side of fame and fortune along the way.  A fabulous way of bringing the life of Andre the Giant to life.  I thought I knew quite a bit about Andre after watching him for years in the wrestling but some of the details that come out in this book I have never read before. And some of it is heartbreaking, some humorous. As a good biography should be. Andre did so much with his life - only 46 years of it - and there are going to be ups and downs along the way. The story about his daughter was really hard to read. I understand it but I don't. If you read this, you will understand what I mean...  I think this is a heartwarming story and one that is presented very nicely in graphic novel form.   Paul ARH
1284	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"""A touching side to Andre 'The Giant' Roussimoff. . .” This biography of Andre the Giant charts his earliest days on his family's farm, to his enormously successful runs in Japan, to his heated feuds with the biggest wrestling stars of all time, to his memorable turns in Hollywood TV and cinema, and to his darkest moments caused by excessive substance abuse. Based on testimony from Andre's friends and colleagues—including his daughter Robin—this is the story you've never been told about Andre ""the Giant"" Roussimoff. Growing up I felt Andre the Giant was there as a marker or chapter break in my own life. I watched him wrestle on TV and saw his cameos on shows like the Million Dollar Man, and later when I started becoming invested in film he was there in the Princess Bride. When I became interested in art and street art The Andre the Giant has a Posse stickers started showing up everywhere. But I can't say I really knew the big man's story. The artwork is great, I enjoyed the writing. You don't even have to be a wrestling fan to like this. It's that good. "
1285	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"I am a huge fan of Andre. I followed him from watching ""The Princess Bride,"" and learned about his wresting career along the way (which I expect is the reverse of most people), but he has always seemed very interesting to me, and I've watched more than a few biographies about his life, read ""As You Wish"" (of course)... you get the idea. I was intrigued when I saw this comic, because how to do fit a life like Andre's into a comic? It is, admittedly, the ""cliff notes"" version, but it seems to cover all the bases well. It starts with an endorsement from his daughter, so that made me feel a little more secure about the content. The decision to tell it in 1st person was incredibly effective. The artwork is also done well, and I like to believe that the illustrator chose a monochromatic palette so the emphasis would be on the story. The good. The bad. It's got a little of everything. I'm unconvinced that non-fans would really love it, but for the rest of us, this was a fun homage to a legend. 4.4* "
1286	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	One of my earliest memories of my dad is watching televised wrestling (way back in the early 1980s) so needless to say I’ve grown up with wrestling. Andre the Giant is someone that has transcended wrestling culture and stardom to become an international icon... and for good reason.  This graphic trade can be considered a condensed story if his life. You’re not going to get a real in-depth look at the man, the myth, the legend but instead a very poetic retelling if his life (and tiny peak behind the wrestling current).  Beautifully illustrated and wonderfully written this book really struck me in the feels because it has a ton of heart. With a foreword by Andre’s daughter and the blessing of his estate this book is a great read for someone who may be curious about the larger than life person behind Andre the Giant.
1287	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"Being a graphic novel only 100 pages long, it glances over pretty much every aspect of his life (his childhood, performing, circuit wrestling, WWF, movie and TV appearances, alcohol, daughter, etc.) without giving too much depth of any one thing. It probably spends the most time on his evolution as a wrestler, in the ring and backstage with his relationship with his managers and his role during the formation of the WWF. Even with the quick pace of the story, there are still several touching moments and the art is very good. I had bought this thinking it was ""Life and Legend."" I never actually heard of ""Closer to Heaven,"" but I'm glad I picked it up."
1288	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I liked this brief summary of Andre the Giant's life. It hit the high points. I wish there was a little bit more about the workings of the WWF. When he says that he won a Battle Royale, what does that mean?  I know it means he was last man standing, but that's a decision made by someone to further some goal, in terms of marketing, or setting up some match. Just telling me that he won isn't giving me much to go on.  He goes into it a little bit more when he faces Hulk Hogan at the Silverdome, but not much.  Still, a good little biography on him. I think there are other sources if someone wants to dive deeper into his life.
1289	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I loved the drawings and color in this graphic novel. I never new about his medical condition that had made him so large or the pain he had been struggling with while fighting. I can't help but look up his daughter and hope she finds love and peace. Seems like she struggles with her lack of connection with her dad since he belonged to the world. This read also got me interested in Japanese wresting and this whole other fandom he starred in. Tbh I am here because of my obsession with clothes and Shepard Fairey. Rip Andre <3<3<3
1290	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Andre the Giant is a pop culture icon, and someone adored by millions. I know him, of course, from The Princess Bride but his wrestling history is impressive.  I didn't know much about his wrestling adventures, or his personal life before reading this. I thought it was wonderfully well done. The illustrations were gorgeous, and the story nicely told. I'm also a great fan of the choice to tell it in the style of a graphic novel. It adds another layer to an already great story.
1291	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I've known about Andre the Giant from watching WWE shows on TV, where superstars reference his legend status in their dialogues. Apart from them, I've not taken an interest in knowing this larger than life human being.  This biographical graphic novel showed me the human side to him. I liked the soft earthy tones in the artwork and the narration. It felt like he was alive and talking to me about his life. I loved it. This has become my favorite!
1292	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	An interesting look at a very interesting personality. Andre the Giant was a phenomenon that will not be easily forgotten, and the book presents him in a way that feels real. He's neither whitewashed for the fans nor demonized for his weaknesses but presented as the amalgam of vices and virtues that other accounts suggest he really was. He was an intriguing individual who suffered greatly due to the very thing that made him such a sensation. He died far too young, but he lived an amazing life.
1293	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I'll admit, I'm only familiar with Andre the Giant because of The Princess Bride.. but I've always been a little curious. This was a great graphic novel, and I think it did Andre justice. I can see why it got as much buzz as it has - the art is stylized, but well done, and the narrative format truly made you connect with the subject.
1294	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A graphic novel telling the story of world famous WWF wrestler and actor Andre the giant.  I was such a fan of him in the 80s, it was good to learn of his life and his struggles and his accomplishments.  Andre had a problem with drinking and this is probably the best quote from the book - “A man leaving adolescence often confuses excess with freedom”
1295	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	this was a solid, sad, uplifting, remorseful, eventful, alcohol-soaked, and touching biography of a man whose name i knew but about whom i knew nothing else. i really appreciated that it opened with a forward from his daughter and portrayed their relationship in an honest and earnest manner, despite how bad it might make Andre look. i especially loved the art.  read on Libby.
1296	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A really beautiful biography book. Great art and a great story to tell about a legend, giant, and a flawed human. Was kept interesting the whole time, and really just made you feel like you were there even if you didn't know much about the man.
1297	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	This was good, but short and simplistic. I never feel like I can get enough information when it comes to biographical information about Andre the Giant. However, I did enjoy the art style. A nice, quick read that I wish were about ten times as long as it actually is.
1298	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A quick moving look into the life of Andre the Giant. This endorsed by his daughter and family and shows the highs and the struggles that Andre faces from childhood until he passed away. The art is solid as well. Worth a read for any wrestling fan or anyone interested in Andre the Giant.
1299	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	This is a fantastic overview of the life of Andre. It’s got all the highlight moments as well as the pains he suffered throughout his life. The art is fantastic and this book is great fir any wrestling fan. 
1300	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	When I saw the slam in wrestlemania III on a old vhs tape I thought this guy was something special. I have never saw his work in Japan but he must have been good to be champion multiple times considering the talent they had at the time. Overall the book is a 5 star highly recommend. 
1301	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	It’s a nice complement to other works I’ve seen on Andre’s life. I like the perspective, and there are personal details included that I didn’t know. It’s a good book!
1302	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Quick background read on the Giant before the HBO doc airs tonight. Nicely illustrated with all the vital stuff about Andre that you should know.
1303	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A spectacularly done graphic biography. I don't even like wrestling and thought this was exceptional.
1304	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Note: I received a digital review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
1305	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A clear and well illustrated summary of the life of Andre the Giant. Worth reading to get some information on one of the greatest wrestlers of all time! 
1306	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	My favorite book I've read on my favorite wrestler so far. (Longer review to follow)
1308	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	http://www.themaineedge.com/buzz/a-gi...  There are few pop culture figures as consistently larger-than-life as professional wrestlers. These men and women are asked to play unbelievable characters and perform impossible physical feats; dressed brightly and tightly, they must create a compelling narrative largely through physicality.  Perhaps the most fascinating figure in the history of pro wrestling is Andre the Giant. Over the course of decades, he worked rings all over the globe. As wrestling expanded beyond its regional nature and became a truly global phenomenon, Andre was right at the epicenter, growing the sport not just through his own exploits, but by helping to elevate the exploits of others.  “Andre the Giant: Closer to Heaven” tells the story of Andre Roussimoff in a way that befits one who is in many ways more myth than man – as a graphic novel. Written by Brandon Easton and illustrated by Denis Medri, this is a biography truly befitting a giant.  On a farm in the French countryside, Andre Roussimoff grew farther and faster than any crop. His growth accelerated to such a degree that he was already larger than most full-grown men by the age of 12. Thanks to a fortuitous run-in with a wrestling promoter, Andre’s fate was sealed – he would enter the ring to make his fortune.  But no one could have expected just how far he would rise.  When he went to Japan, he became an instant success; his combination of size and athleticism was like nothing anyone had ever seen before. He toured the numerous regional circuits in the United States and Canada, his reputation gradually growing into legend. Whether he went by Jean Ferre or Monster Eiffel Tower or any other name, it didn’t matter – he was a star.  And it wasn’t just his work in the ring. Andre’s reputation outside the ring was that of a man with prodigious appetites, a man who needed cases of beer and liters of booze to even approach drunkenness. However, that party animal façade was covering a tremendous amount of pain. Andre was suffering from the agony that came with his gigantism; his physiology simply wasn’t up to the strain put upon it by his enormous size.  Yet he toughed it out – through the birth and subsequent explosion of the WWF (now the WWE), through pop culture landmarks such as his role in “The Princess Bride”…and through a strained and distant relationship with a daughter he barely knew. Through it all, Andre Roussimoff maintained an outlook that celebrated what he had rather than lamented what he did not.  One of the more compelling aspects of “Closer to Heaven” is the involvement of Robin Roussimoff – that same daughter who never knew her father in the way that she wished. Far from being bitter, however, Robin chooses to celebrate the memory of her father and the vast joy he gave to millions of people. Her stories are what give this book its very large heart.  That heart is captured in Easton’s story. This is a tale that has been told before, but never in this way. This story strives to paint a portrait of the man; this isn’t just about an illustrious wrestling career, but rather about a person whose differences separate him from the rest of the world. How Andre Roussimoff decides to deal with those differences – to embrace them instead of reject them – is what makes him such a compelling subject.  The title – “Closer to Heaven” – comes from a story early in the book, about an encounter Andre had with an old woman when he was 12. This woman told him that his size was nothing to be ashamed of, that it merely meant that he was “closer to heaven.” For better or worse, those words seem to have resonated for the rest of his life.  The artwork in “Closer to Heaven” is extraordinary. Medri has captured the spirit of the man, allowing us to bear witness to the slow changes that Andre underwent as his condition altered his body. We watch his evolution from the lightning quick behemoth of his younger days to the lumbering giant of his later days. Yet through it all, the sparkle in Andre’s eye never wavers; even at his lowest, we’re left feeling hopeful for a man who carries so much hope of his own.  In the end, it seems odd that a graphic novel about a pro wrestler could be so moving and compelling. Yet here we are, left with a book that reveals the many layers of a man whose life – and his love for it - was ultimately even bigger than you might expect.
1309	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	'... Closer To Heaven' is an interesting, at times poignant biography of Andre The Giant, and a eulogy for a period of professional wrestling. While certainly worth a read by non-wrestling fans, it will reward fans far more.  The writing is simple, the cartoonish art communicates great feeling & emotion. If curious, worth a read.
1310	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"http://readjezireread.blogspot.com/20...  ""I've heard that a pessimist believes that memories are only regrets organized in chronological order...the optimist says that you should be lucky to live long enough to have regrets. Neither is correct. We live on the border between optimism and pessimism. The darkness and the light.""  "" I began to wonder if I was going to outgrow the world itself.""  I want to mention that this is only my second encounter with the graphic memoir and I really think I need to explore this medium in more depth because it is absolutely compelling.  This covered every aspect of Andre's life but mostly focused on his career and public image. It has everything from growing up and towering over his peers to having to leave school to help support his parents farm. It showcased his love of wrestling but also the struggles with addiction and fame that he faced.  Personally being a fan of early 90s wrestling and the Princess Bride film I was happy to see the impact these things made on his life so I understood him better at the times I was most familiar with his career.  The fact that his estranged daughter prefaced this and that he believed she wasn't his due to medical issues was a great way to see behind his mask and his public image.  The art style in this is simple but detailed. The coloration is plain but I don't think that really takes away from the design in any way. I liked it and felt like it was a good companion to the plot and didn't distract from the overall story. I enjoyed that aspect as well.  I really liked this and would recommend it to fans of graphic memoirs, professional wrestling, and sports stories in general. I thought that they did a fantastic job.  I received this as an e-advanced readers copy from netgalley.com and the publisher. All opinions are my own but I appreciate them letting me review this graphic memoir in advance."
1311	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	This is a trimmed down version of my review, to view the full review visit The Book Ramble.  I received a copy of this book from Lion Forge Comics on NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.  Another graphic novel biography of Andre the Giant! Last year I reviewed Box Brown's Andre the Giant biography so it's kind of cool to get to read another biography of the man and to see where they sort of differ. I have to say they're definitely both worth reading and I enjoyed them both. Easton and Medri's biography has beautiful art, a really personal story, but a kind of toneless and false sounding narration. I think it was a wonderful look at his life, I just wasn't a fan of the narration.  The story is told through Andre's eyes, which was an interesting decision but I think ultimately the point of failure for this book. It all just came across false and unrealistic because it didn't seem like a true representation of events. It read a little like a wikipedia article at times, it was informative - much in the same way as Brown's book was - but it came across unrealistic because people don't talk like wikipedia articles. I think the book did a great deal to humanize a man who had so much media attention, which was absolutely fabulous, it just didn't feel like Andre narrating was a good decision.  The art in this book is absolutely beautiful. It's very detailed and really shows the changes in Andre's life so beautifully and clearly. I really enjoyed the art, and it was interesting to compare it to Brown's much more simple design. I think they both really captured something unique and beautiful in their artistic choices though.  I would highly recommend this book, I think it is worth a read and especially interesting to compare to Brown's book from last year. Definitely check it out!
1312	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I received a digital copy of this title from the publisher via Netgalley.  Ten Second Synopsis: From his childhood on the family farm to hitting the big time in the wrestling world, this book charts the life story of Andre Roussimoff. Focusing mostly on his time as a famous wrestler, the book gives an insight into the man behind the legend.  It’s like the author saw The Simpson’s joke about Troy McClure’s appearance in the celebrity funeral “Andre the Giant, We Hardly Knew Ye” and decided to right that wrong. If you have any interest at all in Andre the Giant either as a wrestler or a film star, this book will provide plenty of information that is a surprise to you. The book starts out with Andre’s idyllic childhood in France on his family’s farm – the only time he ever felt “normal” – and progresses through the ups and downs of his wrestling career to the end of his life. His vices aren’t shied away from, and even though my interest in the man came more from his movie appearances, I found it quite interesting to see the world behind the action and showboating of professional wrestling. Seeing Andre’s struggles with acromegaly, especially toward the end of his life, was quite moving – particularly as he was still wrestling despite being almost unable to move for long periods of time. This might well be a niche read, being as it is a graphic format and a biography, but I quickly became drawn in to the interesting story behind the “giant” we all know and love.
1313	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	ANDRE THE GIANT: CLOSER TO HEAVEN by Brandon Easton & Denis Medri is a graphic novel depicting the life of Andre the Giant. The novel touches on his youth and pivotal points in his life, some less commonly known. Growing up watching Andre the Giant thrive in the wrestling world, I was excited to get a chance to read this novel and I wasn't disappointed at all. The way that each part of his life was touched on really left the reader feeling like they knew Andre the Giant. The graphic depictions were great too, maximizing and minimizing his enormousness to evoke different feelings in each panel really added to the feel of each scene. There is even a commentary on the evolution of the WWF through Andre the Giant's eyes, which was layered with good and bad thoughts about the WWF growth and change in the 1980's. Through the whole novel, there is certain sadness about a man who is never really understood, and at the same time I was smiling all along the way and how great a spirit Andre the Giant really was and how his soul affected some many people. I found the graphic novel medium great to tell Andre the Giant's story, since so much of his persona was and still is captured in pictures more than in words. Anyone who is a wrestling fan, an Andre the Giant fan, or really I think anyone would enjoy the novel. Thank you to Lion Forge, Brandon Easton and Denis Medri, and Netgalley for a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review!
1314	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A well-written, surprisingly sweet comic biography of Andre the Giant, the Eighth Wonder of the World. The temptation with a larger-than-life figure like Andre is to lionize him or use a book like this as a vehicle to re-tell famous stories. Instead, I was pleasantly surprised at the depth to which writer Brandon Easton is able to humanize him. Andre was a celebrity and a pop culture icon, but Eastman presents a narrative that is more interested in quiet moments. Andre felt apart from the rest of the world even at the height of his popularity, and, together with Denis Medry's cartoony but evocative art style, the reader is never allowed to forget that. Both his blessings and his flaws are portrayed without judgement. They are not part of a dramatic arc; they are merely part of a complicated human being. It’s even narrated by Andre himself, because who else would be able to tell the story for him?  Andre Roussimoff was with us for 46 years, which sounded like a good long life to me, as an 11-year-old wrestling fan in 1993. Now closing in on thirty-five, I have realized how woefully short of a life that was. At just over 100 pages, Closer to Heaven moves briskly and it seems only fitting that the book doesn’t overstay its welcome. The story is equal parts funny, sad, nostalgic, and emotionally resonant. I think it’s a Must for wrestling fans and highly recommended for anyone who wants to know more about the 20th century’s most recognizable Giant. 
1315	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Andre the Giant looms large in the world of Professional Wrestling, and was one of the biggest stars in the business. A graphic novel about his life almost seems like a given, with his larger than life persona and the super-hero nature of the business. Andre the Giant, Closer to Heaven succeeds by showing the business side, the human side and bringing us into his life through excellent scripting and unconventional art that helps draw the reader in. The story is told from Andre’s perspective, and gives a high level overview of his life. It would be easy for the creators to bypass the more negative areas of Andre’s life, but they do an excellent job of not just showing them, but giving the circumstances behind these stories without excusing them. Andre was a complex man, dealing with knowing he would life a short life with a lot of physical pain, and the book does a great job of making us understand his reactions to the life he was dealt. It is a quick read, never staying too long in any portion of his life, but not feeling like a “greatest hits” collection. For anyone who is interested in his life will love the book, and if you’ve just heard about him, this biography will draw you in and help you know the man who was called the Eighth Wonder of the World. Highly recommended. 
1316	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Andre the Giant: Closer to Heaven, made me feel like I was living through Andre's life. The graphic novel takes us through the entire life of Andre the Giant, including both his personal and professional life. The heartfelt opening letter from his daughter helped set the tone beautifully for what I was about to read.  The artwork, the story, and the pace helped carry me through the life of Andre. As a professional wrestling fan since the early 90's Andre had closed his career before my fandom began. I have seen all the highlights and matches over the years, but this novel felt like everything in one spot and one experience.  If you are a fan of professional wrestling I would recommend Andre the Giant: Closer to Heaven. It is an easy read with a lot of depth for both the business of professional wrestling and the life of Andre, all while beautifully illustrated.
1317	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I adore Andre. He was such an important part of what made TPB so memorable for me. This book gives a glimpse into Andre's life, but from a weird perspective. Everything is in first person, as if it's an autobiography. Also, it focuses so much on internal dialog and emotions, but the author never discusses where he did researched for his story. When it's written by someone that who doesn't give a personal bio and therefore doesn't seem to have an actual life connection with Andre, I question the constant internal thoughts. In addition, the information provided, minus the unverified emotions, were well known events. It felt kind of like reading a graphic novel version of his wikipedia page. What kept me intrigued was the intro by the daughter and quotes from her letter. 
1318	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I didn't grow up watching wrestling, but I still heard about Andre the Giant. I wasn't really interested in him until I watched The Princess Bride. Several months ago, I read As You Wish, by Cary Elwes about the making of The Princess Bride. He included stories of Andre the Giant and shortly after that I came upon this book.  I liked that the author writes it in Andre's perspective. It gave more depth to it, in that you could see what Andre experienced from his perspective and could sooner feel along with him. I wasn't that interested in hearing about his wrestling career, which is the main focus of this book as it was a major part of his life, but I liked to see a little more of who was behind the character I had come to love from the movie.
1319	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"I'm not sure if this book shows a ""new side"" of Andre the Giant - it's well-done enough, but the ""side"" it shows feels unnaturally scrubbed clean. His estranged daughter writes the introduction, and her relationship (or lack thereof) with him is addressed in the book (with a full transcription of a letter she wrote him as a teenager). It feels very much like the overall story was beholden to committee. It hints at racist remarks, alcoholism, womanizing, being absent in his daughter's life, but never faces them fully. A more complete picture would feel more true.  That said, reading Closer to Heaven piqued my interest and now I want to know and read more about Andre."
1320	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Andre the Giant: Closer to Heaven by Brandon Easton et. al. is a free NetGalley ebook that I read in an early Thursday morning before work. I was given this graphic novel to read in the luck of a draw, since I had Wished to read it by clicking on a wishbone icon some months ago.  This book is incredibly fluent, expressed, ruminating, and detailed in Andre's internal monologue as he wanders through a busy sepia world. Its length and breadth works to clear rumors, place stories on the correct track, and show real thought and strategy to Andre's decisions.
1321	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I started this book with no clue about Andre the Giant, except from his famous role in The Princess Bride. Thankfully, this book gives an interesting visual overview of his early life, and his career in wrestling, and hollywood. Not only did this book sum up his life, it makes you think about the situation he was in, as he was one of the biggest men in the world. The artist did a really great job in this book, and I'm definitely interested in his other work. If you're a fan of Andre, or are just interested in the story behind the man, pick this up.
1322	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I'm always looking for good NF graphic novels, and Brandon Easton's memoir of Andre the Giant is a beautiful tribute to a good, fallible man. Andre was smart, hard working, and loyal, but he also seemed ultimately lonely and haunted, and that made his story sweetly painful. He was so grateful for every success, but also reflective about what he'd lost for those gains.  The graphics add so much to the story - the color scheme, the order/size of the panels, the realistic drawings of the real people. Perfect.
1323	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A really sweet little synopsis of the Giant's career, and while short, is definitely a page-turner and a good deal of fun. I'm not sure why it seems like all the greatest stars in our world (entertainers of all ilk and creative people) seem to suffer a difficulty with family and child rearing--it is touched upon but not labored over in this little book--it seems hard to imagine that doctors missed diagnosing his illness for so long, but, it was a more naive world in those days. I got to see the great man live a few times, it was always fun! 
1324	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	This was a well done book, but it would definitely be more interesting to people that know Andre from wrestling than to people like me that know him from The Princess Bride. It's not a very happy book, because Andre had a tough life. I knew a decent amount about his struggles before reading the book, but I think I did expect it to be a little more charming and a little less bittersweet.  Received from NetGalley.
1325	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"Another graphic novel take on the life of Andre the Giant, this one comes with the endorsement of his daughter Robin. With the first person narrative and heartfelt reflection from both Andre and Robin, this tale feels slightly more genuine and personal. Overall, any story about Andre the Giant will remind me of the wonder of watching Wrestlemania III live on tv AND the hilarity and smiles that Fezzik, his character in "" The Princess Bride"" will always bring me. RIP Andre  Recommend."
1326	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	"Enh. I learned some things about Andre Roussimoff's life but the book itself seemed unfinished, lacking in arc. I don't know, I just didn't feel any compelling connection. Maybe the ""authorized"" part of it stole the revelatory promise? I will say, it's clean enough (mild allusions to booze and willing groupies, and like 2 swear words) that I'd let my second grader flip through it. He seems to want to. :)"
1327	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	*Received this book from Netgalley for an honest review*  I thought the illustrations were excellent, however I vaguely remember Andre the Giant in the World Wrestling Federation, now I was probably around the age of 6 when this was... but I remember the big names The Rock, Hulk Hogan, Steve Austin, The Undertaker... maybe I was too young, but this story interested me very little.
1328	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A simple but probing biography of a simple man called Andre. The book traces his rise from the rural areas of France till the epitome of WWE floodlights.  But despite his rise, his fame, his money, and his size, he was man of simple needs and simpler desires.  A crisp, quick read and lavishly illustrated.
1329	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A really great narrative and fantastic artwork - the depictions of Andre are quite amazing, really channels his slow decline and pain into something palpable. Full of all the usual anecdotes and then somehow manages to dig a little deeper. A must-read for wrestling fans and worth it if you just know Andre from Princess Bride or pop-culture in general.
1330	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Okay so I will begin by saying I knew nothing of the wrestling world, WWF, or Wrestlmania before reading this graphic novel. I had only seen bits and pieces that close friends showed or quotes they shared. However, this novel details (ironically) a very realistic 'Andre the Giant', and his role in skyrocketing wrestling into its current popularity ... And the many sacrifices that came with it. 
1331	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Extremely white-washed and one-sided bio of a great wrestler. I know it is the authorized version, but it really seems too clean and simplistic for a true bio. Also the art style makes reading the comic difficult and the fonts and coloring in places are poorly thought out. And the typos!!  1 1/2 stars
1332	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I enjoyed reading this graphic novel. It touched on a lot of his life and made him very human and not just a freak show. I would recommend this for all sports history fans and even for those curious about the life of Andre The Giant.
1333	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Between his personal life, rise as a wrestler/celebrity, the birth of the WWF, and contribution to Hulk Hogan's career - it was a great read. It somewhat bothered me that it was told in first person. Felt a little like putting words into someone's mouth. 
1334	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	An interesting, but short look into the rise of Andre and Pro wrestling. Wonderfully illustrated and written. Was very interesting to see how Andre helped wrestling rise to the popularity it had in my childhood. A great read for fans of wrestling or Andre. 
1335	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Another fun, well done graphic novel/comic book on Andre the Giant. This one at times seemed a bit harsh but at the same time that made sense since it included information from Andre's child. That added a factual element that was nice. 
1336	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	It was alright! I like Box Brown's comic better though
1337	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Heard about this one a while back, and wandered across it at the comic shop. Melancholy. Occasionally funny. A good, quick read if you wander across it.
1338	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	I really enjoyed this book. It is an interesting account of the man behind the big personality of Andre the Giant. This was my first time reading a graphic novel biography and it was a good.
1339	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Didn't make too much of an impression on me. Sometimes sweet, occasionally informative, very laudatory to nigh-hagiographic. Pretty rendition style.
1340	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Great graphic novel of one of the icons I remember as a teenager, watching wrestling every Saturday morning. I did not know his personal story. Well worth reading.
1341	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Of the two, I prefer the other one. I listed both for purchase, however. Some might like the artwork for this one better and the lilting tone of the text.
1342	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	A very sympathetic biography of Andre Roussimoff with the humanistic art work enhancing the tale.
1343	Andre_The_Giant:_Closer_To_Heaven	Great illustrations and a nice little bio. Disappointed that they didn’t include my favorite anecdote in the whole universe: that Samuel Beckett used to drive Andre to school in his convertible. 
1344	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"So you don't care about ""professional"" wrestling or the WWF or have never heard of Andre the Giant? Well, be prepared to get interested. Andre was 7'4"", and was in excess of 500 pounds when he died. He worked as a pro wrestler, became internationally famous for it, and that very size (and a disease he was said to have that kept him growing and prematurely aging) killed him at 46. If you liked Princess Bride, as millions do, Andre was in that film and best known for that outside of wrestling. He was also famous for feats of eating (he would eat two 2 dozen egg omelets at a sitting) and drinking (sometimes consuming 100 beers at a time). Brown does a very nice job pacing the life story of the Giant, and he is a lifelong fan of the ""sport"". He also balances Andre's story, letting us know his good points (he was generous, often friendly, a huge supporter of pro wrestling and fellow wrestlers), but not ignoring his faults (he had a daughter he only saw four times, he was often an ugly drunk, he wasn't always very nice to lots of people, womanizer). And others were mean to and about him, at his size, all his life.  A sad story, overall, but still, entertaining. When he was a kid and too big to ride the bus to school, Samuel Beckett (yes, that Samuel Beckett!) (who had a truck) would drive him to school. Cool factoid, eh? I find out there are many books written about him, one of the historic stars of pro wrestling and Princess Bride and other films and tv appearances. This has gaps, is not perfect, but it is good and balanced and the art is very good, elegant and spare, black and white and gray. I liked it quite a bit. It may be more for YA than other audiences, not sure. But I liked it."
1345	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'm not a fan of professional wrestling, and I never have been. Nothing against it, it just isn't my thing. What interest I have in Andre Roussimoff comes from my many, many viewings of A Princess Bride. I was a little worried that I might not be able to follow all of the wrestling related stuff. I was surprised at how easy Brown made it for a non-fan like myself to understand what was going on. I could basically tell what was going on in the ring, which I didn't expect at all. Oh, I'm sure that anybody who'd been watching wrestling for the last few decades will get even more from it. They'll recognize more than just two or three names, for one.  This isn't a lightweight bio, either. Brown doesn't hesitate to show some of the less savory aspects of Andre's life. He was a heavy drinker, absent father, and sometimes unpleasant. And he was often generous, thoughtful, and took the business of wrestling seriously. It left me with, I think, a more real understanding of Andre than if Brown had written the good parts version.
1346	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	As a pre-teen, I was a huge WWF wrestling fan in the early ‘90s - I had the sticker albums, a bunch of taped matches, and loads of wrestling toys and a ring (or squared circle); I loved all that crazy stuff. I left it behind when I became a teenager and never went back but I remember a lot from that time. There was a fake barber with gardening shears called Beefcake, a Scotsman in a kilt who was also in movies, and literally dozens of colourful wrestlers from hitmen to bushwhackers. Arguably the most memorable was Hulk Hogan with his handlebar mustache and yellow outfit he’d tear before his matches with “I am a real American” playing as he entered the ring - and his most memorable fight was undoubtedly his match against Andre the Giant at Wrestlemania 3.  It wasn’t until a few years later after watching The Princess Bride that I looked up what had happened to Andre the Giant and found out he’d died in 1993 - oddly, about the time I was at my most obsessed with wrestling - at the relatively young age of 46 in his sleep. That was the last I thought about Andre for over a decade until I read this excellent comic book on the Giant’s life by the superb Box Brown.  The book follows Andre Roussimoff’’s remarkable life as a 7ft 4in tall man, how he got into wrestling and his rise to stardom. But this is more than a catalogue of events in a life; Brown imbues the story with Andre’s personality, a voice taken from anecdotes from friends, his numerous TV appearances and some artistic licence to make reading it more enjoyable. As a child, Andre was too tall to ride the bus so had to sit in the back of a pickup to be taken to school. Brown adds little touches like Andre’s dad giving the driver a bottle of wine for the ride, and the driver making jokes about his name, Beckett, and the famous playwright. Details like these - small, almost negligible - lift up this story and make it infinitely more personal.  While wrestling in Japan, Andre sees a doctor for the first time in his life and is diagnosed with acromegaly - a condition that means that, as big as he already is, he’ll continue to grow. The extra growth would add extra pressure to his joints, bones and heart, and the doctor grimly tells Andre he’ll be dead at 40 (he was out by 6 years). To illustrate Andre’s vulnerable physical state, he once broke his ankle just getting out of bed in the morning!  And while his condition is sad, and, as Hulk Hogan points out at the start, that wherever he went, he was ridiculed for his size, this book doesn’t sentimentalise Andre’s life nor make him out to be an untouchable saint - Brown gives us the full picture of the man he was. Andre was casually racist toward his fellow wrestler Bad News Brown (though they make up before Andre’s death), he fathered a daughter and only saw her 4 times in his life, the mother finally getting him to pay for child support after years of dodging payments, and he was frequently boorish, drunk and rude to friends. During a match with One Man Gang, a wrestler he knew to be a teetotaller, he snuck a beer into the ring and poured it down the unsuspecting wrestler’s throat!  After the filming of The Princess Bride, Rob Reiner discovers Andre’s bar tab was $40k and his lengthy drinking sessions are documented here - he reportedly drank over 100 beers in one sitting! Each of the main actors in the movie get a page with an Andre anecdote, my favourite being when Robin Wright was cold, Andre put his hand on her head, enveloping it entirely, and warming her up! Other famous moments like his Letterman appearance in ‘84 and his fight with Chuck Wepner (the boxer whose fight against Ali became the inspiration for Rocky) are also included.  Of course, the wrestling is written about the most and Brown explains the various wrestling terms so that anyone, regardless of their familiarity with it, will find the book accessible. Wrestlemania 3 was the biggest fight of Andre’s career, with the event selling 90,000 tickets, as Andre faced off against Hulk Hogan. Brown goes through the preliminaries of the fight, showing how the WWF (now the WWE, having lost a legal case with the World Wildlife Fund for the acronym) built up excitement for the match, staging a rivalry between the two wrestlers (in real life they were friends). Brown then goes through the fight, explaining how the two sold the action to the audience and how it was choreographed. Brown shows not only a strong understanding of wrestling but enlightens readers as to its machinations.  And while a common refrain from critics of wrestling is that it’s all fake, and it is, well, the wrestlers are really up there doing the heavy lifting. Hogan does lift Andre in the fight and that’s not fake, nor is the giant standing on Hogan’s back fake. More than anything this book shows that you do need to be in good shape to do half of what these guys do in the ring. One of my favourite scenes in this book is when Andre’s in a bar drinking and a coupla drunks talk smack about how wrestling is fake and that wrestlers are pussies, then run away when Andre stands up in front of them. He chases them out and tips over their car - with them inside, terrified - single-handedly!  Box Brown has created a wonderful book about the life of one of wrestling’s greatest, Andre the Giant, as well as a great book on wrestling itself. It’s well written and drawn in Brown’s understated yet delightful illustration style, and by turns informative, entertaining, real and heartfelt. If you’re unfamiliar with the guy’s work, check out his comics on his website which are absolutely terrific.  The book didn’t bring me back to wrestling but it did make me look up tons of wrestling matches from the ‘80s and ‘90s on Youtube which took me back to when I was a kid and in awe of wrestlers like Andre and Hogan. Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is a fantastic comic by an enormously talented cartoonist. Whether or not you enjoy wrestling, this is a thoroughly engrossing book that’s well worth reading.
1347	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It was ok, I was hoping for a bit more in terms of story and illustrations though. You basically get, he wrestled, he drank a lot, he had a tough life.
1348	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Andre the Giant is the biography of professional wrestler (and The Princess Bride actor!) Andre Roussimoff. Author & artist Box Brown is known for his well-researched stories (such as Tetris: Games People Play), and Andre the Giant is no exception.  The graphic novel spans from Andre's childhood in Molien, France (1958) to his time wresting in Japan (1991-92). Followers of professional wrestling will enjoy seeing their favorite wrestlers in graphic format. Fans of The Princess Bride will delight at the 'behind the scenes' coverage and memories shared by Billy Crystal, Christopher Guest, Mandy Patinkin, Robin Wright, and Rob Reiner.  And anyone who enjoys gaining insight into the lives of other humans, will appreciate this graphic novel biography of ""a normal guy who'd been dealt an extraordinary hand in life."" - Diana F."
1349	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I have a soft spot for Andre the Giant (who doesn't?) so when I read about this in the NY Times I made a beeline for the library and eventually found it, banished in the Young Adult Room ghetto. For some reason, my library has half of its graphic novels in the regular popular library and half in the Young Adult Room and what goes where seems sort of arbitrary. So, as the kids of DC will soon find out, Andre the Giant was a hard living womanizer, a deadbeat dad, and a carouser who could put away prodigious amounts of alcohol and eggs. He was also living with the pain of knowing he had a terminal disease and constant reminders that he (literally) didn't fit into this world. You get the feeling that for the most part, he felt comfortable with his choices - maybe a few regrets, but ultimately that he felt he'd found a niche that allowed him to make the most of what he'd been given. Brown gives the impression that Andre didn't have a lot (or possibly any) close friends, and that his personality and maybe his circumstances caused him to keep his feelings mostly to himself - but that may have been partly a research and sources issue. We mostly learn about Andre through road-life anecdotes given by professional wrestlers who worked and went on tour with him and who may, or may not, have known him best.  The art and the dialogue are pretty simple, but effectively tell the story. And though it doesn't look like the author did much original research, he did do some digging and includes a helpful list of his sources in the back (mostly old interviews and bios of pro-wrestlers). The book felt really light to me and I breezed through it. I was interested, but wasn't lingering on pages like I do with art I really connect with. Minimalist art can be deceptively powerful and affecting - and, while the art was good, I didn't really get that feeling here. Still, the story of Andre's life and the illness that drove him was enough to keep me engaged and eagerly turning pages. In that sense, the book is a success - it tells an interesting story in an effective way that leaves you thinking more about the subject than about the artist.
1350	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"This was recommended to me after reading and reviewing As You Wish: Inconceivable Tales from the Making of The Princess Bride .  This graphic novel/biography examines Andre's life from about the age of 12 until his death. Andre, like everyone has many things that made him great as well as plenty of things that he could have done better.  He was usually very endearing and tended to refer to everyone as, ""Boss"". When filming Princess Bride, he kept Robin Wright warm by gently placing his hand on her head (he generated a LOT of heat).   Since the drawing doesn't really do justice to how this might have looked, remember Andre's hand on Cary Elwes' during the movie?    His acromegaly and the damage from wrestling put quite the stress on his body. He had surgery on his back at one time, and they had to think outside the box for everything - from the stretcher, to the surgical instruments/hardware, to how much anesthesia he needed (the massive amounts of alcohol he could drink was legendary, so I can only imagine the amount of anesthesia that was needed).   He spent other times in the hospital for various other joint/bone issues and heart issues related to his condition.    He did plenty of flying for all of his wrestling. I don't know how he ""held it"" on those long flights...    I didn't know that Andre had a daughter named Robin. It seems as though he would have liked more time with her, but between his career and the strained relationship with her mother, and likely other factors, it just didn't happen. I wonder whether working with Robin Wright made him think of his own daughter since they shared the same name.    Andre remains in so many people's hearts for the Princess Bride. In a few years, when my boys are old enough, they will watch Princess Bride, and he will be remembered by a whole new generation.    Rest peacefully big guy. "
1351	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This book starts off with a lot of promise. In the first pages, Hulk Hogan speaks poetically about Andre the Giant, and tells us (it is drawn in the style of a documentary interview, camera on Hulk) that though Andre could be gruff and short-tempered, he was, underneath it all, a solidly good human being who has suffered immensely.  The Hulk Hogan interveiw and the scene with Samuel Becket and the pickup truck (also in the early pages of the book) were the most compelling parts of the story for me.  In the end, the book is repetitive. It's a bit of a dog chasing its tail of a book and there's no arc to it. It doesn't seem to have much more to say than:  Andre drinks absurd amounts of alcohol all the time. When he drinks he gets belligerent and out of control and alienates people. When he's relatively sober he tries to make friends with them again. He travels a lot. He is in pain a lot.  According to the text, Andre gives next to nothing toward the financial support of the daughter he's met once or twice, and sometimes spends upwards of $40,000 bucks a night drinking. He is verbally abusive at some point to just about everyone he comes into contact with. Yes, it's hard being a giant, but that's not enough to carry a book, and it doesn't explain away his profoundly destructive behavior. Maybe there's just not enough information out there to write a more soulful book. I can't say I recommend this one.   
1352	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I quite enjoyed this simple telling of the life of Andre the Giant. Sad, poignant, interesting and enlightening, if you're interested in the man it's definitely worth checking out.
1353	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was in seventh grade in 1987. I was perhaps the perfect age for becoming desperately fanatical over the events leading up to Wrestlemania III. It was the perfect combination of soap opera and athleticism. My brother and I would watch WWF matches every Saturday morning. I would come to school the next week and exuberate over what happened, what would happen next, who were good guys, who were bad guys, and who would win the championships. Hulk Hogan, Nikolai Volkoff, George the Animal Steele, Adrian Adonis, the Honky Tonk Man, Billy Jack Haynes, the Junkyard Dog, the Iron Sheik, Hillbilly Jim, Captain Lou Albano, the British Bulldogs, Ricky the Dragon Steamboat, Kamala the Ugandan Headhunter, the Rougeau Brothers, Jake the Snake Roberts, Macho Man Randy Savage. And Andre the Giant. These men were the lords on the earth. They were tremendous figures—though their feuds often seemed concocted even to a seventh-grade me.  In March of 1987, Wrestlemania III took place in the Pontiac Silverdome to, apparently, record attendance. For whatever reason, my dad took the cue that we loved wrestling and got us tickets to watch on closed-circuit television along with a packed-out crowd at the Anaheim Convention Center.[1] It was easily the most exciting thing I had experienced up to that point. We roared, we booed, we screamed. The hall was electric with fans who were deeply invested in the stuff. I, personally, was there for the Ricky the Dragon Steamboat vs Macho Man Randy Savage grudge match. I was furious with Savage and needed to see vindication for the injustices[2] he’d earlier perpetrated against Steamboat. And honestly, it was the best wrestling I’d ever seen.     The headlining match in which Hulk Hogan was challenged by Andre the Giant was definitely a draw, but it was secondhand snuff by comparison. The problem was that I just didn’t like the Hulkster. He always felt a bit too big for his britches—he and his 24-inch pythons. So when Andre the Giant began feuding with him, I was like, “Good. Take his stupid belt. Devour him.” Really, I probably just wanted Ricky the Dragon Steamboat to take the belt. In any case, I was expecting a good match, just not a fantastic match. But man, we got a fantastic match. And Box Brown’s biography of the Giant spends a fair amount of time on Wrestlemania III and everything Andre did for Hogan in that contest.  Here’s the real deal, if you care to see it.  http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x6k4...  I was worried that Brown’s work would have arrived too late for me. After all, my interest in the WWF and wrestling waned sharply after Wrestlemania III. My fandom wouldn’t even survive to Wrestlemania IV. I entirely lost track of all those characters and what they were doing or even whether wrestling still existed.[3] I couldn’t be bothered. It all seemed a bit too infantile to eighth-grade me—an eighth-grade me who was still desperately longing for news of a potential X-Men cartoon that never materialized. Then a couple years later, I saw The Princess Bride for the first time. The movie was released years earlier, but still a kid, I was rather limited in which movies I had access to. And besides, what seventh grade boy really wanted to go see a movie with this for a poster:     But at last I saw The Princess Bride, and like everyone else in the world I came to adore Andre the Giant and his rhyming. And yet again, out of sight out of mind. I didn’t hear the news of Andre’s death in 1993 and wouldn’t discover it for another decade. The next time I encountered the man was in Shepard Fairey’s Andre- and They Live-inspired OBEY GIANT campaign. Fairey created the piece in 1994,[4] but I didn’t take notice until 2000. By this point, I still didn’t know of the Giant’s death. All this is to sell you on the fact that I honestly couldn’t be bothered to care about wrestling or wrestlers or the welfare of those persons. It was like how I have no idea what’s up with Richard Adams, author of Watership Down. I just had other things going on. And I didn’t really ever see myself reading a biography of Andre the Giant (or for that matter, a Richard Adams biography either).     So when I tell you that I found Brown’s telling of the Giant’s life engaging and enjoyable and illuminating, you can be pretty sure I’m not writing from within the golden glow of nostalgia. Box Brown has composed a portrait of the imposing man’s life that draws together a number of fascinating pieces, illustrating the terror and wonder of Andre’s too-short life (he was six years older than me when he died of his giganticism. If I have one complaint, it’s that I wanted more. Another hundred-and-fifty pages of vignettes of this man’s life. Even though there’s a lot here, the Giant remains an enigma, as much a mystery as you or I.[5]  What Brown does well is balance a variety of portraits of the wrestler in such a way that these contrary reports of the man’s actions and demeanor seem less a conflict and more a variegation of a life lived in the depths of unreal struggle. No matter how good and pure Andre may have been (and we want him to be good and pure), no one can stand up under the degree of fear he generated in those around him combined with wealth and power and popularity and come out shiny and clean. That he does so well as he does, remaining loved and remembered by a good number among his friends, is a reminder that despite the faults, he was generally a good-hearted man.     Still, those who wish to recall him wholly as the good-natured Fezzig from The Princess Bride may be disappointed with the scuffing to his reputation here. Heavy drinking, womanizing, disinterested and deadbeat fatherhood, and the occasional drunken racial slur (a la Mel Gibson). These are among the nicks on his armour. But interestingly, Andre is such an unreal figure that these very human flaws serve to humanize him.  And that’s probably the biggest power of Brown’s toolbox. He visually brings home just how ridiculously large Andre is in comparison to those around him. My wife is miniature set next to me. She is a foot shorter than me and I double her weight. The difference is striking when we stand closely together. I am not a small man. And yet, Andre had nearly a foot-and-a-half on me and was nearly three of me in weight. That would be daunting for anyone to confront. Brown’s work often invokes the term monster—and that’s exactly the sense that his drawings, for all their almost Ware-like simplicity, describe. Andre is monstrous. Yet for all that, Brown remembers to display how human he really is. Was. However we refer to the deceased who are also fictionalized[6] characters in a book.     If visually Andre is a monster, Brown is careful to keep his fragility of spirit on display as well. Even in some of the exuberances of his personality (the drinking, the fights, the belligerence), it’s easy to interpret them as reactions from within the social prison his form created for him. Hulk Hogan himself even offers this perspective within the book. We see happy moments, sad moments. Moments from Andre’s perspective, moments from the vantage of his co-workers in the ring. It’s a solid mix and gives meat to the bones of his spirit.     Brown plays his storytelling rather straightforward. He jumps from location to location, skipping time liberally to cover forty-six years in a pretty brisk hop. He doesn’t seem to be playing any narrative tricks prompting nuanced or complex readings of the material, which is probably fitting. Andre, for all his mystery, is still a simple and straightforward picture, and anything that would distract from that would likely be a disservice.  Probably whatever you remember Andre for, that episode from his life will be represented. The pivotal pericope, however, intersects perfectly with my own experience of the Giant. While we get scenes from Andre’s rise in the wrestling world, his match with boxer Chuck Wepner, and the filming of The Princess Bride, it’s Andre’s title match against Hulk Hogan at Wrestlemania III that occupies the most space and is perhaps most lovingly recounted. And Brown does a great job recreating the details and a kind of play-by-play of the contest while simultaneously providing background and insight into what was going on within the scene. He brought to life something I had once witnessed but didn’t quite apprehend—and that was a lovely thing to come across so many years later.     I mentioned earlier that I wished there had been more pages in Brown’s work here. That’s not to suggest that Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is poorly conceived or that it leaves too many strings untangled. Merely, I hoped to describe that my enjoyment of the book was such that I wouldn’t have minded more of the same. I often feel this way about graphic novel biographies. It’s such an easy, fluid means to access the lives of others that these lives can often feel as though they are flitting by too quickly—as if they are underliving their value. I felt this way with Ottaviani and Wicks’ Primates as well. (Though not, curiously, with Ottaviani’s Feynman , which was thick for its short page count and perfectly essayed.) All this is to say that if Box Brown decides to biographize the life of Richard Adams, I would not turn down the opportunity to happily read that one too. _______  [Review courtesy of Good Ok Bad.] _______  Footnotes 1) Where they’ve held Wonder-Con the past couple years.  2) Fabricated, sure, but I was only tangentially aware of that back then.  3) Pro tip: it did still exist.  4) It was repurposed from an earlier campaign, “Andre the Giant Has a Posse,” after Fairey received cease-and-desist notice from Andre the Giant’s trademark owners.     5) Though if you’re a regular reader of my reviews, you may actually know more about me than I now know about Andre the Giant.  6) To clarify the point, this is non-fiction. But as in all biography, license is taken for the sake of story. Things are depicted in particular ways. The world bends to the storyteller’s pen so that this version of things might be the truest version of things. Truer than life is the goal of every thorough biographer.  I mean, I made that up just now, but I’m pretty sure it’s true.
1354	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Hulk Hogan on Andre the Giant:  ...people don't get it. There was never a fork or a knife, even a bed! There was never a situation where he could be comfortable. He was a seven-foot-four giant. With all the injuries and everything he shrank down to under seven feet.  I watched him when he'd walk ahead of me at the airport. I heard people say horrible things and make fun of him.  He lived in a cruel world.  If you really understood what he went through and what he was all about, he was a gracious person with a kind heart. But he didn't put up with any games or chicanery.  Most people don't understand the big picture.  It turns out that being a giant kind of sucks. For the giant. For everyone else, it's sort of awesome. Rob Reiner has to explain Andre's $40k bar tab from a month of shooting in London, sure, but it's a great story. Samuel Beckett drove a young Andre to school after he grew too much and wouldn't fit in the school bus. Luckily, Beckett owned a truck and Andre could sit in the bed. Again, a pretty great story.  On the giant's side, there's a lot of pain, a lot of problems, and you're just about guaranteed to die young.  What I liked about this book was that it was an unvarnished look at a man's life. If you google around for Andre the Giant stories, lots of stuff about what a great dude he was, so kind and generous and all this. But the truth is that he pissed some people off. He was an ass more than a few times.  Andre's memory might be a case of widespread AJ Syndrome.  AJ syndrome is a term I coined based on this kid who died at my junior high school. I certainly wouldn't ever ever ever wish death on someone that young. Even then I didn't. But when I heard the kid died...well, I could only conjure memories of the kid being a complete jerk. Because that's the way he acted.  It's unfair to respond to the death of a teenager by saying he was a jerk. Because so was I, and I was lucky enough to have time to build new opinions of me. Now people can hate me in a much more informed way, and I'm able to be a more adult, more mature type of jerk to them.  However, what's also a bit unfair is to remember the dead as something they weren't. To manufacture niceness from someone because they are now dead. Especially when we're talking about an adult, even if that adult had a difficult life in a lot of ways.  This book, more than most of the other things I've read about Andre, seems to present the truth. Andre the Giant was a guy. A giant guy, a guy who drank over a hundred beers in a sitting, after which he passed out and was tucked under a piano cover, the only thing big enough to accommodate him. And he was also a guy who could be kind of a dick sometimes.  Yes, he's dead, and there's not a lot of point in saying bad things about the dead. EXCEPT that it makes me wonder...well, if a dead person is unassailable merely because he or she is dead, then what point is there in leaving a lasting legacy of goodness? We'll all die eventually, and by dying we ascend to a certain level of sainthood? No thanks.  So I appreciate this book for what it is. Painting the sometimes ugly portrait, but not without empathy for the giant's plight.   
1355	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"The storytelling was chronological but felt really disjointed. Sometimes not enough context/description given and other times way too much and not enough reliance on the reader or faith in the illustrations to communicate. For example: ""Hogan, looking weirded out, acted as if his hand was crushed."" Yeah. I got that from the drawing. The author is a wrestling fanatic and the vast majority of the bibliography is wrestling specific. There is a really slim section (six pages) on Andre's time filming the princess bride that is based entirely off of the DVD extras/special features.  A quick read but wouldn't revisit or recommend because ultimately I didn't think most of the stories were very interesting. Big takeaways: Andre the Giant liked to drink and play cards. Life could be difficult for him in predictably obvious ways because he was enormous.  "
1356	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was never a huge fan of wrestling but I was a fan of Andre the giant and the princes bride.  Great book even if it was a short read.
1357	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Professional wrestling, in many ways, is the perfect microcosm of our mediated reality —an artificial constructed world that many people believe in, or at least claim to believe in, and other people make loads of money from selling the story to the masses. The story, the deception, the marketing — in professional wrestling (""the business""); the charade as a whole is known as a ""work"".  It is a world where celebrity trumps reality, where appearances beats facts. It is a massive lucrative con, and also wildly popular entertainment.  Andre the Giant was born in France and had a condition where his body produced too much growth hormone and continued to do so as he aged. Such people tend to die young because they age rapidly and their heavy bodies strain hearts and joints.  This graphic biography of the wrestler known as Andre the Giant (also famous for his role in the movie, The Princess Bride) offers insight into the personal life and challenges of the man, as well as exploring the working life of a wrestler/entertainer who is always travelling.  My quibble with this volume is that the source notes at the end, while helpful in providing context, did not match page numbers in the text. They might have, at one point, but then a foreword was added (""Isn't It Fake? A Note about the Nature of Professional Wrestling and Comics) which threw off the numbering.  This volume also includes a glossary, to help understand ""sports entertainment"", and a bibliography."
1358	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	What is not to love about a book that contains both Samuel Beckett and Mandy Patinkin?  This book is also full of all sorts of things about wrestling that I did not know previously, which was helpful, since I knew absolutely zero about wrestling. Yay being entertainingly informed about new things!  Above all, it's a fascinating look inside the life of a man who spent much of his time in the public spotlight . . . but had many facets that were not immediately visible to the world at large.  I keep reading things about the transparency of the internet in today's life, and wondering what we would have thought of Andre had he been keeping a public blog throughout his life.
1359	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I have been really looking forward to this book, and I've heard so much buzz about it, that I was a bit disappointed, to be honest. I love Andre the Giant. I used to watch the Hulk Hogan Saturday Morning cartoon, and I am a huge Princess Bride fan. I remember reading an article about him shortly after he died, talking about how he was in so much pain his last few years, had had so many surgeries, yet was still such an amazing guy that everybody loved. So, clearly, a biography about him in graphic novel form sounded like just my sort of book.  But this isn't really a biography of him. It's sort of a series of vignettes, illustrated.I would say that forty percent of the stories are about wrestling, forty percent about him drinking and hanging out in bars, and the other twenty percent is his life. It's only mentioned briefly that he loved The Princess Bride, yet in two or three articles I've read (the one about him, a couple about the movie itself) they talked about how he would watch it every day, and everyone traveling with him had to watch it, too. He had several surgeries and they removed huge chunks of bone from his knees so that they wouldn't grow together and make him unable to bend, but only one knee surgery and one back surgery are mentioned. And honestly, he comes off as kind of a jerk, but Brown keeps assuring us that everyone in wrestling respected him. But he doesn't show us why. There's not enough here for us to understand him. Why did he keep wrestling despite the pain? Why did they respect him long before that? Why is nearly ever other page him sitting and drinking? We get it: the guy could put away a lot of shots, but why do we care? And I think that's what really bothered me. If I didn't already care about Andre, I wouldn't care about him now. People picking this up who don't already admire him aren't going to admire him more, or be more curious about him. They might even be turned off.  PS- Although I know this is marketed for adults, I had wondered about giving it to my 10yo, who just recently saw The Princess Bride for the first time and loved it. But it's very much NOT for kids. Aside from the drinking, there's also sex and quite a bit of profanity, including the F-word. Just FYI.
1360	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	People are just people, folks. We all have our own stresses, perspectives, lenses, experiences, biases, talents, desires, skills, challenges, weaknesses, and strengths. But we're all just people.  Andre the Giant was no exception.  Prior to reading this book, my primary reference point for him (like many people), was The Princess Bride. After reading this book, and googling a bunch of photos of the guy, I feel a bit more expert on the man. Andre Roussimoff's story makes me contemplate: Using potential challenges to your advantage Being in the public eye Where the line is between capitalizing on yourself and being a victim Stardom Sadness Alcoholism Professional wrestling He comes off as a well-meaning sweetheart, a tragic figure, affable, and practical.  I enjoyed Brown's approach and attention to the scholarship of his story - he includes a Foreword about Professional Wrestling, and Source Notes at the end. I really wish I could take it to middle schools, but decided that for me, it's more of a high-school book.
1361	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I like Andre a little less now, but it was a good book. 
1362	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Wrestling isn't my thing, but Andre the Giant led an interesting life. Plus, he's in one of my all time favorite movies, The Princess Bride.
1363	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"This feels like a book that was written from the perspective of a fan for a fan. As noted by other reviewers there is little noteworthy or new that is depicted. There is a superficial quality to this graphic novel and though we get a lot of Andre the Giant we get very little of Andre Roussimoff. Instead of any in depth analysis we get a chronology of his various matches and on the road escapades. There are a few interesting tidbits such as learning that as a young teen, Andre had an encounter with the playwright, Samuel Beckett. Also that in lieu of remembering names, Andre called everyone, ""boss"", almost reflectively.  For me, the biggest issue was the prevailing theme of Andre being a dick. It is important in depicting him to have a nuanced view, that does not rely on treating him as a saint but this swung far to the other side. Though, the author tries to show how being a giant in an average size person's world can be debilitating both physically and psychically, Andre's belligerence and downright bullying makes him an unsympathetic figure. His destruction of property and wanton use of racial epithets also does not paint a pretty picture. The manipulation of women and his strained relationship with his baby momma and daughter is another negative in his ledger.  Overall, while I enjoyed learning new things about Andre I do not understand who this graphic novel is for. For true wrestling fans it is too thin and due to the methodology of listening to shoot interviews is way too biased. For Andre the Giant fans it is no bueno, as it portrays him as a boorish lout who is often intoxicated. As for casual Andre fans or wrestling fans it delves more into the actual matches than the psychology of what it is be Andre the Giant."
1364	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	" This graphic novel was set up pretty strange in the fact that it wasn't in chronological order it jumped forward a lot, almost would seem like a highlight reel of Andre the Giants life in the ring and outside the ring. Starting from where he was treating like crap in his village by his neighbors due to his size to fixing a car that broken down, carrying a box up several flights of stairs as a moving man and then poof his a wrestler (all of this in the first 36 pages of the book). Then it goes on the regale us with the other moments of Andre's life from his travels in Japan and his wrestling there to his bouts in America. A cool thing that I learned while reading this was in 1976 he fought a boxer by the name of Chuck ""The Bayonne Brawler"" Wepner, and while Andre was under the impression that it was fun, no one told Chuck, just to keep his reactions ""real"". This whole match was then recreated in Rocky III, where Chuck is played by Rocky and Andre is played by Hulk Hogan. I had no idea that this came from real life and I thought it was just awesome. I love the Rocky movies. All in all, I didn't think it gave me enough information on the man to really tell me who he was. There's a part in the very beginning by Terry ""Hulk Hogan"" Bollea where he tell us that Andre was a sweet man but people though he was mean by the way he treated him, but giving the excuse that his a GIANT in a world where things aren't meant from him and that we should give him some slack was kind of a copout to me. eh. "
1365	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is a graphic novel released by First Second written and drawn by Box Brown.  The graphic novel tell the story of Andre Roussimoff, better known as Andre the Giant - the 7 foot 6 inch tall and 600 pound wrestler. The book covers how Andre goi into the wrestling business and tales of his travels around the world. Because of the protection of the wrestling business, the tall-tales that former wrestlers tell, and stories passed around in the locker room, many of the stories about Andre may be more myth than fact, but they are still incredibly entertaining.  Enjoy the ride as you learn more about the man who just wanted to fit in and have a good time. Andre was taken from this world much too soon and I really wish he could have sat down to tell a proper story of his life because I believe his insights to the world would be eye opening.
1366	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Nice biography. Given pro wrestlers' penchant for exaggeration, Brown has attempted to get as close to the truth as possible. While there's certainly a bit of warts-and-all to this, it doesn't dominate. In at least some ways, Andre had a hard life and managed to do better than most at making the best of what he was given. Brown's quirky style is well-suited to this tale. Good stuff!
1367	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	An interesting look at one of wrestling’s most famous performers. I was pleased that it showed both the good and bad of Andre. And while I believe Andre was a decent man, I’m sure he had his demons and could be difficult to those around you. The book is presented very respectfully but honestly.  Four out of five stars. Recommended. 
1368	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A cute little snapshot into the life and legend of the 8th wonder of the world Andre the Giant. 
1369	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre's life was larger than his size and his impact on Pro Wrestling was even bigger. A glimpse into the life of an iconic and almost enigmatic character. 
1370	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Lovingly crafted vignettes from the life of a Giant. 
1371	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I remember hearing that Andre had a great sense of humor, prodigious appetite, a great love for red wine, and he sounded like a nice guy despite the pain that comes with his size. However, this graphic novel also showed him as being kind of a bully at times and using his size to intimidate and get his way, all the while being harassed by the public; he had an illegitimate daughter that he did not provide for. The drawings were fun, showing just how massive Andre was. Literally larger than life.  This book showed a simple, humble man trying to get through a difficult life as best he could. He wasn't always gracious about it, and sometimes his patience would wear thin. It sounds like he faced many situations that he didn't quite know how to handle well, and he didn't always get the sound advice from those around him that you would hope for. I don't know if that's their fault, or Andre's for not listening or letting anyone get too close to feel that they could offer advice. It sounded like a lonely existence being a fighting giant.  I was hoping for a happy, carefree experience of a larger-than-life Frenchman, but instead it was the story of a lonesome giant trying to escape his woes.
1372	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It's a well done biography, although I'm in no position to judge its accuracy or selection of events to retell as I know little about Andre. I just wasn't very interested in his life.  I enjoyed the first bit when Brown chats about the 'wrestling is fake' dilemma. I enjoyed how wrestlers all have a code where they never reveal that wrestling is fake; that is until money got involved and a WWE manager admitted it wasn't a real sport in order to get out of paying sport taxes in a certain US state.  This book will interest people who want to read about Andre's life (which, I suppose, is saying the obvious).
1373	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	[3.5/5] I love wrestling and I love comic books, this combines the two and shows how interesting the business can be while still being a fun read. especially as it focuses on one of the most unique men to ever live. it gives an interesting look into andre’s life, showing his struggles with his size and lifestyle as well as his not so great moments on top of literal larger than life career he had. it’s biggest negative in my book is that it ends up feeling like just a bunch of little andre stories glued together and it never really feels like a whole. that being said, some of the stories are presented in great ways and seeing that WM3 moment on the page literally gave me chills.
1374	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I'm not a fan of wrestling, but I love biographic comics, and this is one of the best I ever read. The writing and the art make possible to understand everything that involves the ""sport"", and the way of telling the story - with the good stuff in Andre's life, but also his deep problems - made the story relatable and touching. An excellent comic, and even people that don't read them would enjoy."
1375	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'm not a connoisseur of graphic novels. I enjoyed this one. I feel like I learned a lot, but not quite enough. 
1376	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	3.5 stars.  The story of the largest worldwide celebrity of all time! The work itself is sparse, direct, and rendered with a simplicity that belies its inferred complexity. I'd never read anything of Brown's before, and I'll be looking up his other work soon. His art is subtle and straightforward, and when it varies outside of reality for effect, it really hits. (used well when drawing Andre as the monster that he was perceived as.)  This crossed my desk at the library and I read it in a sitting, as a childhood fan of both wrestling and Andre, and I'm surprised it was able to fit the giant life of the giant man into such a quick piece.  There was a small, sad man inside of the big jolly giant, and some of his indulgences and nasty habits could perhaps be forgiven considering his lot in life and the prognosis he was given at the start of his fame, but then again, it's perfectly reasonable to not forgive any of it. Being a cruel drunk is one thing, but there are other aspects that aren't as easily explained away, his abandoning of his daughter (not just in proximity, which could *maybe* be argued given his lifestyle, but there was nothing stopping him, a very rich man, from supporting her financially. Anyway. That's just a particular sticking point of mine. Men of renown are often given passes for ignoring their children, and it never feels right to me.  Ahem. This was still a fascinating and unflinching portrait of the man, and a good read. A tragedy, ultimately. It doesn't make me necessarily want to learn more about him, but it does add some texture to a man who exists largely in myth.
1378	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	  I'm not sure why I didn't love - or even really like - the book.  It felt slow. Like it didn't give me anything new or all that interesting.  But everybody loves Andre. He's great. (Although, the book made me love him quite a bit less... so maybe there was some new stuff in there.)  
1379	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	For a generation of professional wrestling fans, Andre Roussimoff was a giant, both as a man (he stood seven-feet, four-inches tall and weighed 500 pounds) and as an icon (he was one of the most successful and beloved wrestlers of all time).  In telling Andre’s story, author/illustrator Box Brown did his homework. A life-long fan of professional wrestling, Brown draws upon interviews with those who personally knew Andre as well archival footage in an effort to show a complete and accurate portrayal of Andre’s life in and out of the ring. Throughout Andre the Giant: Life and Legend’s pages we see Andre as a young boy growing up in the French countryside, Andre as an up-and-comer in the professional wrestling circuit, and finally Andre the globe-trekking celebrity. Along the way, Brown gives life to dozens of anecdotes about the wrestler, moments ranging from playful to painful but always compelling and curious.  For those less familiar with professional wrestling, Brown takes pains to make the material accessible. Throughout the course of the narrative, he includes a preface in which he imparts to the reader a useful description of wrestling as business, explains all necessary terminology in text and within a glossary in the back of the book, and walks the reader through the context and culture of professional wrestling fandom during the 1970s and 80s.  Brown’s visual style is simple and fun, much like professional wrestling itself. While a more superhero-y sort of approach might have been equally fitting, Brown draws each moment in a very comic way, giving a light-hearted feel to the entirety of the work. Andre’s size lends itself well to this cartoonish format, allowing Brown to exaggerate Andre’s hugeness even further for effect, a move which lets Brown take the Giant’s legacy and spin it into the stuff of legend.  Brown’s storytelling proves both interesting and entertaining. Told as a chronological series of moments from Andre’s life, including small, often humorous moments such as clowning around with his buddies and altercations in bars and larger, more iconic ones such as his match against Hulk Hogan at Wrestlemania III (arguably the most important match in wrestling history) or his role in the film, The Princess Bride, Brown hopes to show his reader a balance of Andre the man and Andre the icon.  This balance doesn’t always work. Brown almost exclusively moves the narrative along at a breakneck pace. He never really settles into any scene for more than a few pages before moving on to the next one—which works very well throughout the action sequences set during wrestling matches and in cute moments such as Andre’s appearances on TV shows like The Tonight Show, but less well when attempting to bestow upon the reader insight into Andre’s true character. Aside from some of the wrestler’s quirks (for instance, he called everyone “boss”) and his hobbies (we learn that his favorite pastime was playing cards), I never really felt like I came to know the man. Perhaps because they are unheroic, the most human parts of Andre’s life get glossed over—including the most complicated and perhaps interesting parts of his reality outside of the ring, which involved his daughter.  What I can say after reading this graphic biography is that Andre’s life was both fantastic and flawed. He was adored by millions of fans while making millions of dollars. Yet everywhere he went people stared, and as he aged every step he took was accompanied by pain. Andre’s size and the condition which contributed to it (acromegaly) condemned him, as Brown writes in his introduction, “to a death sentence.” Andre’s enormity, the very aspect of his being which helped make him famous, also ensured his health would deteriorate rapidly and at a young age.  This book is a wonderfully illustrated, easy, entertaining read for anyone with even a slight interest in the Golden Age of professional wrestling. Andre’s career is truly fascinating: his journey from small-town, small-time shows to one of wrestling’s biggest stars is a compelling, satisfying story arc. Just expect to walk away knowing more about the Giant and less about the man.
1380	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I thought this was an interesting way to write a biography. It seemed to me to be somewhat of a thin read, I didn't really feel that I understood Andre more than I did before I started. I did appreciate the pro wrestling angle. The art is cool and I enjoyed the book but I'm not sure it's one I'll read again.
1381	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"The graphic novel ""Andre The Giant"" by Box Brown is a very mediocre Comic at best. To understand my review, you must understand a little bit about the comic first. The story is about Andre The Giant's life you might of guessed from the title. The book describes his life in a chronological order fairly well. However the Novel portrays Andre's exciting life very poorly. The novel shows him being rude and drinking and smoking quite often. However the comic never really goes into detail of how this is affecting him and the person he is becoming. The comic repeats this sin of writing when Andre shows the good person he can be. Instead of talking about how he feels and going into depth it just happens. When the read is bored and sees a fight is coming up it gives them a beacon of false hope. The dialogue is extremely simple. For an example in the most exciting fight in Andre’s life that was reenacted in “Rocky III” it just says “All-In-All, it was a good show because the fan’s got to see a spectacle.” This could be excused if the art invaded the fight in an epic fashion. However, to the readers dismay the boring black and white simplistic art makes the fight all the more worst. When andre throughs Wepner out of the ring, they art gets to the point where a fifth grader could do better.  There are many reasons I gave this book two stars. The comic earned two stars because of the end of the book. The book’s only good towards the end just like andre’s career. It brings up the struggles of a big man and getting old. When Andre hosts on a late night show and they ask what he wants to do when he retired Andre doesn’t know. He wants to have a family a relatable feeling. He also is going through the pain of being old something a lot of people can relate to. Eventually he dies in his sleep before he could retire and have a family. Making a impactful and meaningful ending. This end is why the Graphic novel gets two stars. The graphic novel was not fantastic but the ending was good. The art was bad and so was the writing, lucky though the story of Andre is still intriguing. However, I would never read the book again. The monotonous color and text really ruined the book. The comic had a chance to be good but that never happened. It had potential but ended up being pretty garbage. "
1382	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	My VOYA review: Andre Roussimoff, better known professionally as Andre the Giant, grew up in the French countryside before becoming an international professional wrestler and going on to star as Fezzik in the modern film classic The Princess Bride. Weighing in at over five hundred pounds and seven feet four inches tall at his peak, Roussimoff suffered from acromegaly, a syndrome that causes extreme growth. His condition caused him great discomfort and constant pain, yet he was a dedicated professional who worked nonstop�at the expense of familial relationships�until his death at forty-six. Brown does an outstanding job conveying the excitement and drama of professional wrestling, and it is clear that he has exhaustively researched Roussimoff's life. His affection for Roussimoff specifically and wrestling in general is evident, yet he does not sentimentalize his life. Roussimoff drank constantly, mistreated his friends and fans, only saw his daughter four times, and long denied her mother child support, despite his wealth. Brown's artwork is spare and clean yet conveys the energy and drama of the wrestling ring This comic biography will not be suitable for most teen collections due to the constant drinking and frank (but not explicit) sexual situations, particularly when combined with expected low interest from teens due to the subject's somewhat outdated fame (from the 1980s). Let hardcore wrestling and The Princess Bride fans seek out this title in the adult collection.
1383	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is not a puff piece, it is a very real, very raw look at Andre's life. Dude had a genetic disorder that made him grow and grow, until his body couldn't support its weight and collapsed in on itself. He was in constant pain, and only copious gallons of hard liquor kept him functional. He was an absentee father. If he didn't know you, he could seem like a bully. Given most people had no way of asserting themselves in his presence, he technically was a bully!  But if this book were to convey one thing, and one thing only, it's that Andre loved wrestling, the sport and the business.  @ Wrestlemania 3, Hulk Hogan and Andre the Giant fought a title championship match. But both Hulk Hogan and Andre the Giant were faces. In order for this fight to make sense, Andre would have to turn heel. The whole point of comics is to show, not tell, but as you can see in the linked video, seeing what happens is very easy. Box Brown's great achievement here is that he explains exactly what is happening as it happens; it's poetry in motion and it is gorgeous.  If you're one of those weirdos who thinks wrestling is fake, or that it doesn't require tremendous effort, pick this up and let Brown change your mind.
1384	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was a big fan of wrestling at one time. I think I started being a fan around the 2nd Wrestlemania (early 80's I think) and stopped around the time that Bret Hart left the WWF, probably a little before then (1990?).  I went to see Princess Bride only because I knew of Andre and wanted to see him in the movie. Considering other wrestlers roles in movies I wasn't expecting much of the role or the movie and was delighted with the results. I dragged my friends to see the movie too and we spent our college years quoting from it.  There isn't anything in the book that surprises me but then I've been an Andre fans for many years, probably since I saw him at my first live wrestling event fighting Big John Studd in the 80's. It was the only time I've seen him and the truth is he was so far away I didn't really get an idea of his size.  The artwork was a little strange, simplistic, but it works. The book is a very condensed story of Andre's life. I think it's probably the best there is. I would recommend this book to anyone with any interest in wrestling, Andre in particular or The Princess Bride. If you're a fan of any of those or know someone that is then I recommend you add this book to your collection.  
1385	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Brown's depiction of Andre the Giant was both revealing and surprising to me. But I am only an Andre fan because of his work on The Princess Bride, and then later on the internet meme about his posse, so any look into his wrestling career would have been eye opening.  Brown's account feels honest, but it also feels like he honestly didn't know the guy. And maybe the people he interviewed honestly didn't know him either. What we end up with is a passing acquaintance with a flawed man afflicted with gigantism and exploited in the modern day freak show that is professional wrestling. There was some insight into ""the business"" of pro wrestling that made me realize that the trumped up ""reality TV"" of today owes more to the WWF than it does to MTV's Real World. There was disappointment that his movie star co-workers' glowing praise stemmed more from the unstoppable ass kiss fest that is any DVD behind the scenes extra than from friendship. And there is a very realistic look at the life of a unique man, even if that look is from across the street.  I'm left feeling like I lived in the same small town as Andre, but we never got invited to the same parties. In the end though, Brown's story was entertaining and even made me laugh in spite of myself."
1386	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Box Brown's graphic novel of Andre the Giant's life is an interesting look into the world of professional wrestling and what it's like to be too large for the world around you. Brown doesn't put Andre through a rosy filter; he equally presents Andre's friendships, his vulnerabilities, his drinking, and both his kind and unkind actions.  I learned a wealth of information about Andre and wrestling from Andre the Giant: Life and Legend, but I also found myself wishing for slightly more information on certain aspects of Andre's life, including his childhood and his daughter.  Brown's simple, black-and-white illustration style works well for the most part; however, I didn't feel the facial expressions were as expressive for the emotions they were depicting as they could have been.  One nice addition is the inclusion of a detailing of Brown's sources for each story in the book, as well as a more standard bibliography.  Note: I received a digital galley of this book through NetGalley.
1387	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was a big wrestling fan in the early to mid eighties and just thrilled to bits when I heard this biography of Andre Roussimoff was coming out. I'm so pleased that it met up with my high expectations. Andre the Giant is pretty much of a legend in the secretive wrestling world of the '80s making it very hard to know where the truth ends and fabrication begins. Using artistic license to bring us a story in visual form Box Brown has done a fantastic job of putting all the most reasonable anecdotes together with the verifiable facts bringing us an inside look at this tortured man's life. He was an enigma who brought wrestling to the mainstream audience, a man with a death sentence of a disease and one who lived with perpetual pain. Hard-drinking, rude and racist he was also a kind, gentle giant faced with discrimination and this graphic biography is a wonderful portrait of the man from all angles. At the end of the book the author has compiled a Notes section which details where his information came from and how he interpreted it, which also made for interesting reading.
1388	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I know Andre the Giant from The Princess Bride and vague memories of Wrestlemania. For a time in my childhood I was way into wrestling, because the characters were everywhere, from cartoons, to music videos, to rubbery action figures. That being said, I haven’t thought much about these guys since then, but when I came across an Andre the Giant biographical graphic novel, my interest was piqued.  It’s done in a pleasantly cartoony style, taking us from when Andre was a 12-year old in 1958 France (he couldn’t fit in the bus, so he got a ride to school from Samuel Beckett), through to his death in 1993. It is not comprehensive, but rather a series of vignettes, more than a few of which made me chuckle. It also shows, however, the pain and inconvenience of his acromegaly, such as how he was too big to fit in an airplane restroom, so he had to, um, completely empty his system before a long flight.  It’s a quick read (hence the light review), and if you’re at all interested in seeing inside the world of wrestling or finding out more about Andre the Giant, I recommend it.
1389	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was interested in this book for two reasons. The first is that Andrew loves Andre the Giant, and I wanted to see if he'd like this book as well. The second is that I was intrigued about using a comic format for a biography, so I wanted to see how it would work.  Overall, I think that it's a success. This isn't an incredibly detailed account of Andre the Giant's life, but it covers the main information and gives enough facts and tidbits to make it an interesting read. Also, with the comic format, the story moves very quickly -- I think I finished this in a few hours. The illustration style lends itself well to how the author portrays Andre's life -- very simple and straightforward. I learned a few things I didn't know about Andre and I truly enjoyed getting to know about his life as a wrestler, since the only thing I actually had any previous information on was his work on The Princess Bride.  Also posted on Purple People Readers.
1390	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I love Andre the Giant. My love for him started through my favorite movie, The Princess Bride. Because of that, I already knew many of the stories about him from that era. (If you’re interested in that, As You Wish by Cary Elwes is a wonderful source for that.) In the past, I’ve also had a passing interest in wrestling history, particularly in the era before I was born, when many people really didn’t know that the stories in wrestling were fake.  After hearing Alyssa’s recommendation, I was interested to see Andre’s story told in this format. I think it’s really fitting, since he’s seen as a superhero-esque character in the wrestling world. I really enjoyed the novel overall. The narrative could have been more cohesive, and I had heard a lot of the stories before, but I think that it lends itself quite well to the format and it was really cool to see the stories told this way.  Also posted on Purple People Readers.
1391	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"3 stars  I've only ever thought about Andre as the lovable ""giant"" from the movie The Princess Bride. When I saw this book about his life I was intrigued.  It's a very fast read and although it wasn't particularly deep, I do feel like I know a little bit more about professional wrestling (for whatever that's worth, ha!). He lived a full and exuberant life, overindulgent and full of excess. The wrestling was mostly pretend but you do get the impression that Andre was proud of what he did and enjoyed the spectacle. I'll be honest, my impression of him has changed now, and not particularly for the better, having read this book. I do appreciate the physical pain he was in, due to his condition, and I recognize that we're not getting the WHOLE picture, but it's a little disappointing to learn about the parts of his personality and his choices that weren't always for his good or anyone else's, either.  Note: a fair amount of cursing and a bit of crude humor/art"
1392	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It hasn't been that long since I read Cary Elwes' book, As You Wish, which paints a very sweet picture of Andre. That is not necessarily untrue, but there is another side as well, and seeing it can be disconcerting. One thing Brown does very well is start with some quotes from Hulk Hogan that give understanding and empathy for him. Everything goes back to that context. It makes the story a sad one, but not only sad.  The other thing that stands out is that Brown gives some really good introduction and insight into professional wrestling. Much of Andre's life is set against that backdrop, and so it is important, but it could have made some things inaccessible for non-wrestling fans. That is never a problem. Brown has a lifetime of being a wrestling fan for background, but retains perspective on what information newcomers would need.  
1393	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	an incredible telling of the life of the beloved actor and wrestler Andre the Giant. Detailing his career and accomplishments through his life this book easily helps you get lost in the history of this man.  Andre was the scene stealing star of The Princess Bride, whose memorable character bright joy to our hearts. after filming the movie he returned to wrestling and was part of one of the biggest & most important events in wrestling history, he made Hulk Hogan a star.  you may not be a fan of wrestling, but you should read this story to gain an understanding of the hardships that a man whose body would not stop growing has to undertake.
1394	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	That wacky world of professional wrestling! I’ve always loved it and at the same time, been creeped out by it. No matter how much they slick it up, no matter how much money they dump in it--it can never shake its sleazy, carnival barking aura. Cheep, childish, and savage. Wonderful! It’s the proverbial “great place to visit, but I wouldn’t want to live there.” In other words--a libertarian paradise.  Read the rest of the review on my blog, and don't forget to listen to my relaxing, dulcet compositions as you read!    Read the complete essay here.
1395	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Andre is perhaps the last legend, in that enough of him exists on video that anything is credible, but little enough exists that ""it's not on video"" is not a real argument. Before Andre everything is a myth. After Andre we knew or we don't. Accordingly, I've always loved ""Andre stories"" and was excited to learn about this book. I really wanted to love this. But the art is okay, the narration is okay, and the stories are the well documented rather than the legends. But it's still cool, because it's Andre. Assuming you love Andre."
1396	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Simple, clean, and kind of cute illustrations take you through brief fragments of Andre's unusual life. I really liked the behind-the-scenes wrestling stuff. It really takes me back to my childhood. I wish there was more to it, though. There was obviously a lot of research done and there's a nice author's note that discusses the fine lines between fact and fiction, myth and reality of the wrestling world. I would have read 100 more pages. The portion describing his foray into acting was way too short.
1397	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was more compelling than I expected. I knew Andre the Giant had wrestled, but I didn't realize it was his primary career. I learned a lot about wrestling from this little volume, and about Andre -- one of the details I love most is the fact that a young Andre would occasionally get a ride to school in the back of Samuel Beckett's truck. A nice, realistic portrait of a man from the perspective of people who love and respect him. I wish there was more from Andre's perspective, but it seems like he rarely talked much about himself. I was sad to come to the book's end.
1398	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A minimalist book about a man whose reputation and legacy continues to be bigger than he was. Box Brown uses simple but evocative art along with carefully chosen scenes to present Andre the Giant not just as the Giant he was known for but also simply as a man. Andre the man could be a real dick, but it seemed like he always tried to have his heart in the right place. It's a story with more depth than Andre probably got credit for in most of his life, a nice tribute that doesn't let the legend be the only thing remembered.
1399	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I already knew that Andre The Giant was larger than life. I saw him battle Hulk Hogan in his last hurrah when I was a kid. I watched him carry Robin Wright around like a doll in ""The Princess Bride."" I read flabbergasting stories about the man in Cary Elwes' book ""As You Wish."" This book offered an unflinching and artistic look at Andre's life. At points Brown's approach felt a bit too much like a collection of short stories through the eyes of others, unfortunately. That said, it was a look behind the curtain of wrestling and of a remarkable individual."
1400	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Alright, let's just forget that a graphic novel turned me into a blubbering fool for a second. This is a beautifully told story about a largely misunderstood man, but in a way the story is as much a myth about a real man. Box Brown tells the touching story of a giant man with an even bigger heart. It's told simply, beautifully, and it's told in a way that non-wrestling fans can enjoy. This is the best book of 2014. Period.
1401	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'm not sure I'm the target audience for this graphic biography of Andre the Giant, though I did find parts of it intriguing. It's hard to leave a biography and still feel like you don't really know the subject and because wrestling is such an deceptive sport, sorting out the truth can be difficult. Brown acknowledges this and does his best with the source material, but I still have many questions about the real Andre Roussimoff.
1402	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Very nicely done graphic novel biography of Andre looks a lot longer than it actually is. A very quick read, but Brown does a great job hitting many of both the high and low notes of Andre's life. He doesn't shy away from showing what an ass Andre could be but he makes us understand why as well. I also loved the parts where he takes us into the intricacies of several wrestling matches. Overall a very touching and compelling inside look at both Andre and professional wrestling.
1403	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was hoping for so much more in this book. As a child of the 80s, with a father who loved watching pro wrestling, I followed a lot of Andre's career. I was hoping this book would give more insight into his life, and details about the man behind the character. Unfortunately, this was all fairly surface level and left a lot to be desired. 
1404	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	If you grew up in the 80's, then you were at least aware of the phenomenon that was professional wrestling. And there was no wrestler more prominent than Andre the Giant. This book gives a small peek behind the Oz like curtain of that world. Lots of nostalgia may have effected my rating by one star.
1405	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A biography in graphic novel format -- interesting concept. I grew up watching wrestling on TV and remember Andre the Giant fondly. This was an unusual way to introduce his life and story to a new generation of folks. Recommended for those who enjoy graphic novels and wrestling.
1406	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the giant was a huge part of my youth, from professional wrestler to the princess bride. Often seen as a freak this novel dove a little into what was behind the character. It didn't go deep but did cover some serious challenges the man had. 
1407	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A very interesting way to present a biography story of Andre the Giant. I would consider this book for young adults or elders. There are some swear words and racist part. I wound't recommend this book to a young 5 year-old wreslting fan no matter how much he likes the Giant. 
1408	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I like the pictures. I felt like there wasn't enough depth in this book. Yes, it's a picture book, but even still.  Also, it was way too fast to read -- it lacks a satisfaction of accomplishing a book.  
1409	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I wasn’t expecting this biography to be another graphic novel. Andre is still and will always be one of the greats. While yes he wasn’t an angel overall everyone says he was one stand up guy. Too bad he never got to have the kind of relationship he wanted with his daughter. 
1410	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Really enjoyable and fun. Hard to believe but it's my first graphic novel.
1411	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	3.5 stars rounded up because he's a giant.
1412	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The writing was a bit wooden at times, but I learned a lot of things about the man as well as that period of time in wrestling. By all accounts he could be a real sonofabitch.
1413	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Simple black and white lines tell the lesser known story of Andre the Giant.
1414	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Very informative and well illustrated! A quick read for sure, but a great one.
1415	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"This book gave me a better understanding of professional wrestling and about Andre. I'll be honest, I went into this book with the thought, ""Alright, I have to read a book for English class, why not read this graphic novel/ comic. But as I read the first couple of chapters I became very intrigued. I loved how this biography mixed Andres' thoughts with giving the reader an understanding of what was going on around his life at wherever point you were at in the book. Through my childhood, wrestling wasn't my biggest interest as a sport. That's probably because I didn't even consider it as a sport. I think this played a big role in me being interested in the book because it was something I wasn't familiar with.  Personally, I thought there were a couple of reasons that I gave the book four stars and not five. First, I thought the book ended to abruptly. As Andres wrestling career takes a peaceful downfall the book ends a little to soon. I would've loved to have read more details about Andres life in his later years. Another reason was how little it reveals about his daughter. I thought it could have showed what Andre was thinking about her a little more.  I am very happy that I read this book. I recommend you read this book because it is a fascinating biography that is not a stress-read. It is very casual and I am sure you will be interested from the very beginning.  "
1416	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I just happened to stumble upon this at the library, and picked it up out of curiosity. I ended up really liking this book! It was so short and enjoyable, I read it in one sitting. I do think it was a little jumpy in terms of the plot—I wish there would have been some focal point or theme throughout, like how Andre himself felt or why he drank like he did or how he dealt with his own insecurities about wrestling. It felt more like a quick overview that said, “Wow! Look how crazy his life was!” (Which, yeah, it was INSANE.) But the illustrations and the writing itself were so great, I really did like the book a lot and am glad I picked it up!
1417	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"An interesting biography about Andre the Giant, though the comic format doesn't really work well with it. At the beginning of the book the author says that he had to take some creative liberties due to not having exact the details on certain events, which is understandable for a comic but not ideal for a biography. It mostly left me second guessing a lot of things that happened in the book like ""oh did Andre really cry there?"" or ""was that really what was said or is it just the author doing his best to recreate dialogue?"" There are source notes in the back but I think I would have preferred them as footnotes or numbered citations. Overall I learned more about Andre the Giant which is great, though I think I'd prefer an actual book with sources referenced in the text."
1418	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	3.5 stars. I grew up watching Andre the Giant during his WWF days. It was always a thrill seeing him in the squared circle, even after he turned heel during the height of Hulkamania. Although most of what's in Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is known to fans, Box Brown's graphic novel is wonderfully written and illustrated. The clean, black-and-white look fits the subject matter perfectly; the storytelling is straightforward and provides a good, if not totally complete portrait of a larger-than-life public figure. Andre was a unique and complex person and his life certainly reflected that.
1419	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I really enjoyed the art work in this graphic novel. The simple line drawings and black and white simplicity help tell the sad story of one of pro wrestling’s biggest stars. As a fan of The Princess Bride and the WWF cartoon series back in the 80s, I only saw him as a big goon and a silly sidekick to Hulk Hogan and Inigo Montoya. I had no idea that Andre the Giant dealt with the pain and sadness he did. This book was eye-opening and heart-breaking. 
1420	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was something that I just randomly came across. I'm not interested in wrestling, not into graphic novels, haven't been curious about Andre the Giant outside of The Princess Bride. Basically, this book had everything working against it but it caught my eye. Glad that it did. Andre the Giant had an interesting life & now I know a little more about it.
1421	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Meh. I was really looking forward to this, but I was disappointed. I've heard some really great stories of Andre the Giant but in this book all he did was drink and behave like a jerk. I understand that he was in terrible pain and was self medicating, but...
1423	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I loved this but it flows almost like a series of mini comics - snapshots of life - more than a complete linear story. Perhaps that's purposeful but it is a little jarring.
1424	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I liked the format, the story, I just really wished there was more information. The text was really sparse.
1425	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Personally always a fan of the big guy. 
1426	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	3.5 stars. Interesting and sad
1428	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Sorry No excuses. Box Brown is a great artist as his simple and playful art is what kept me hooked till the end. Andre is at least more than a collection of anecdotes(wasn't a right approach).
1430	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	true. lean. mean. a real moment in time, and a great companion piece to box brown's andy kauffman bio as well. love the visual storytelling especially. i am not the biggest pro-wrestling fan but i was still captivated by the people and storytelling. a great example of comic biography.
1431	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Pretty good book, the art is is clean and the content of the story interesting. This is the story of an ordinary man who became famous because of his larger than life size and died young because of his size.
1432	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'd known of Andre the Giant almost exclusively from The Princess Bride, having no previous sense of the extent of his professional wrestling career. Apparently he was kind of a big deal! This graphic, biographical account of his life contains very little to laugh about, though there is possibly some dark humor. Afflicted with gigantism caused by excessive growth hormones, he lived a rather lonely existence despite decades in the public eye. Living with chronic health issues and pain, receiving looks of fear or laughter from strangers his entire life — it's no wonder the extent to which he self-medicated. Despite the likelihood that he was exploited in the wrestling world, he seems to have been relatively happy with his career, but the idea that he didn't see retiring to his cherished farm in the country as an option, because it was too lonely there, is heartbreaking. I thought Box Brown did Andre's story justice and would recommend it, though I was not won over by the illustration style.
1433	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Initially I was very excited to dive into Andre's story, but then it got to the racist part and I really didn't want to read another page. 
1434	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This book was a sad look into the life of an infamous man. Paired with the inhuman strength of this famous figure, you see the pained man who drank to numb himself. It was a sad, albeit interesting read.
1435	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I can honestly say that I have never watched a Professional Wrestling match in my entire life. Simply not a fan, whether it's all a show or otherwise. My interest in Andre the Giant comes from a great love of the movie The Princess Bride, as I am sure it is for many other readers out there. I was able to learn some interesting life tid-bits about Andre through Cary Elwes memoir on the making of The Princess Bride; the two seemed genuinely close and spent a lot of time together. But I knew little else of his career, and this graphic novel was brought to my attention recently through a friend (and fellow fan). Thought it would definitely be worth the read.  And it was, for the most part. I learned quite a bit about the behind-the-scenes of Pro Wrestling. Brown did a great job making the stage of everything very understandable to even the non-fans like myself. I never felt lost in the minutiae of a sport to which I pay little to no attention. That greatly helped in the overall enjoyment and reception of this book, because normally anything with wrestling turns me off. Thanks, Brown, for making it approachable.  You are presented with a hodgepodge of life events for Andre. There is very little to no flow in this memoir. Its graphic format does help it along, because I do not think Brown's information would work it were simply written out. I was hoping for a smoother story and a more pronounced narration. Many times, our only cue of a scene change is small print in the upper corner, and many of those changes do not seem to have an important order. It's a scrap book of Andre's career, with a tiny bit of insight towards his condition and feelings. I realize we cannot get any information from the source, unfortunately. Andre was a quiet man. He was also a hard drinker, a bit of a brute, an absent friend and father, and a dedicated sportsman. Due to his condition, he was often surrounded by cruelty and insensitivity. In many ways, he did the best with what he had. Brown chooses to highlight his wrestling career, and that may be why my enjoyment of the overall product was not through the roof. However, it provided another interesting glimpse at a very rare man.  Still, he will always be Fezik, the kind giant, to me.
1436	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A quick read by about a special individual and athlete.
1437	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I think most of us have a soft spot for Andre the Giant, so when I heard that there was a graphic novel depiction of his life I had to check it out. I was a little disappointed. I think I was hoping for a little more conclusion or resolution or something. One thing that really shines in the book is the depiction of the world of pro-wrestling, and I think we can all tell that the author's real love are the fights he remembers seeing growing up and the excitement and drama of those moments. Those fights are lovingly, dramatically, almost adoringly re-told for us to enjoy and I think we can share in the author's wonder. But where the book falls short is telling Andre's story with any real insight. Moments from his life are almost consequentially depicted, stories gleaned from other wrestlers are re-told in a blow-by-blow but without a point. Sometimes I found myself wondering if the story was supposed to be funny or meaningful or if it had any relevance to Andre's life or if it was just an episode that the author happened to encounter and included in this book.  I think there were some real missed opportunities for exploring the psychology of Andre. There are a couple of moments where interviews on TV are depicted and the author does explore what he thinks is going on for Andre psychologically. But there are huge parts of his life are left untouched. Andre's refusal to participate in parenting his daughter - a huge decision, I think - is given one page and not explored in terms of psychological or dramatic impact at all. After that page we go back to anecdotes from his wrestling life. Andre's final pages end pointlessly and had me turning pages back and forth wondering where the concluding thoughts were.  If you are interested in Andre for his contribution to the wrestling world that is what this book truly focuses on so this will be perfect for you, but if you were hoping for a little bit of insight into who he was I don't think you'll find it here.
1438	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I saw this on a list of 2014's best graphic novels and my library happened to have a copy, hurrah! I love Andre, solely due to The Princess Bride, and thought this would be a nice way to learn more about him. I'm not a fan of pro wrestling and never have been, so it was quite interesting to learn about that world while also learning some about Andre.  Overall, I felt this was pretty well done and I enjoyed the art. It captured the people very well and was quite expressive while still being simple and clean. I liked the fact that the wrestling world was explained in a way that someone who has no knowledge of it could easily follow along.  However, I feel like there wasn't enough information in there. It seemed more of an overview of a biography rather thank a fully fledged and researched one. The chapter on The Princess Bride was especially disappointing. (The only information in it was taken directly from the extras on the DVD.) I also feel like the book didn't show too many of the things that made Andre, as they kept calling him, such a hard guy not to like. I like that they didn't shy away from showing some of his less than stellar characteristics, such as being a dead-beat dad, copious consumption of alcohol, and rudeness, but they didn't give me memorable instances of him being ""hard not to like"". The book did do a decent job of portraying the hardships and pain that his condition caused, but I think it could have gone into more detail overall and been a much more in-depth look. I came away feeling as if I learned more about wrestling than I did Andre.  I would recommend it as an enjoyable read, but not as something that goes into a lot of biographical detail."
1439	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The Princess Bride is one of my all-time favorite movies which means I’m a fan of the lovable giant rather than the pro-wrestler. That is the reason I wanted to read Andre the Giant: Life and Legend. However, after reading about his life, I’m left with a sadness on how Andre lived his life.  Box Brown really captured the loneliness of Andre’s life. All of his life he was treated with disdain. People feared him. However, once Andre discovered wrestling, his life changed. When he was in the ring, people loved him, but outside of it, he was an outcast who was feared and tormented by the same people who cheered him. This fear, loneliness, and abuse caused Andre to turn to alcohol to ease his pain; both mental and physical.  After reading this book, I felt that Andre was never comfortable in his body. He couldn’t be alone; or maybe he was afraid to be alone. He truly wished for a normal life; however, that wasn’t possible. Furthermore, Andre was a very flawed man. He was not only an alcoholic but he was a mean and abusive one at that. He made bad decisions and sometimes abused his friends. But it seemed they always forgave him for his shortcomings.  Andre’s body was not his friend. I couldn’t imagine that pain he endured just to remain mobile. However, he never gave up and remained in the ring until the end. Andre lived a full life; but, he lived a very sad and lonely as well. He died alone; but he will always be remembered. He is a true legend; a flawed one but a legend all the same.  Does anyone want a peanut? 
1440	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	When I read Cary Elwes' As You Wish Inconceivable Tales from the Making of The Princess Bride my primary reaction was that I wanted to read a further biography of Andre the Giant, of whom Cary paints a very warm picture. In fact, his account of the making of The Princess Bride was nearly disconcertingly rosy.  I can certainly say that Brown takes a different tack with his version of Andre. He presents him as a giant, yes, but as a giant with the same kinds of flaws and mistakes that any man can make. He drank too much to balance out his physical (and likely psychological) pain, he wasn't friendly with his fans, sometimes he picked fights, etc. I can appreciate Brown's take on this, because it allows Andre to be more than his persona.  That said, I didn't like how this book is presented. It is really a series of illustrated stories, taken from a variety of sources, very few of which were originated by the author. I looked over his notes only briefly, but it looked like he only personally did a single interview. All the rest of his research was from extant video and interviews. That, sir, is not how one does good history.  I think the art was fine, and for the most part captured the author's idea of the story, but I don't think this little piece probes deeply enough into who Andre really was, and it leaves a gap in what Andre's motivations and beliefs might have been. This was interesting but incomplete.
1441	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	In a way I'm not so sure if this deserves three or four stars, but I'll stick with three for reasons I'll tell you about. Andre the Giant is a very good biographical comic about a wrestling legend, Andre Roussimoff. I'm not into wrestling or show wrestling and Andre's name didn't ring any bells until I remembered him from the Princess Pride movie. What a tragic life he had and dying so young because of the disease that made him too big in structure, so that his organs couldn't cope with the situation. Andre's career is surely interesting and how he got to travel around the world and all. The rhythm is great and the transitions between panels work well too. I liked the font and how the texts were aligned. The comic made his life into a plot and it worked out well - it's just that we didn't really get to understand Andre or see him as an actual person. The comic traces his steps, but doesn't tell us anything about the guy. I would've wanted to know more about his family, his kid and all the personal things that made him who he was. Now it's just a row of wrestling moments and alcohol.  The art is wonderful and fits the story extremely well. The autumn like colors fit the 1970s' and 1980s' atmosphere nicely and I also enjoyed the angle of views. The art work reminded me of Christophe Blain's art as well as the colors, but was still unique and just marvelous. As a sports biography this surely is worth the fours stars, but as a biography of a person I'll have to stick with three and mostly I felt that this was supposed to be more about the person than the wrestling.
1442	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"After reading just a few pages of ""Andre The Giant: Life And Legend,"" it's obvious that cartoonist Box Brown has a lot of passion and respect for professional wrestling. Andre The Giant is arguably the most famous and beloved wrestler of the old WWF days and his biography is a perfect subject for Brown. Knowing Andre Roussimoff mainly from his role in ""The Princess Bride,"" I was looking forward to learning more about this larger-than-life man; though I did learn a bit, the book was a little bit of a letdown.  The good: Brown's art is crisp and simple, his story is well-researched, and his treatment of Andre is balanced and unflinching (Roussimoff was generous and gentle but he was also an alcoholic, a deadbeat father, and somewhat of a racist). The bad: the ""story"" is really just a series of short remembrances so the flow of the plot is quite choppy, the scenes can be pretty repetitive, and Brown's drawing style results in some characters being tough to distinguish from one another. Overall, it's an enjoyable book but it could have been really wonderful with a clearer, better-edited plot.  The ""truth"" in wrestling is a tough thing to grasp so it's admirable that Brown tries to discover the humanity in Andre The Giant's mythic persona. In his stories of the car-flipping, farm-dwelling, lonely legend is a reminder that sometimes mortals are stronger (and stranger) than typical comic superheroes."
1444	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is the story of the eighth wonder of the world Andre Roussimoff aka Andre The Giant.Being a avid wrestling fan when i was a kid i knew basically all the inside the ring action presented in this novel.However i did not know alot of the things that took place outside the ring.This was a real good look into Andre the wrestler and also Andre the man.  As far as the wrestling part of things i can also remember that every time the giant fought it was must see tv.You knew then and there you were watching something special.I did learn that he fought many matches over in Japan.However his epic showdown with Hulk Hogan at Wrestlemania for me will go down as the greatest wrestling match ever.This book gives keen insight into how for all intensive purposes Andre not only embraced Hulk Hogan as the next big thing in wrestling but also played the role of villain to perfection so Hulk could bask in the glory of being the good guy.  Outside the ring you learned of his awkward childhood and the feeling of isolation and emptiness he carried with him most of his life.Of course the author took some liberties in the book but overall he gave you both the good and sometimes not so good view of the giant.Adding in the time he spent on the set of The Princess Bride was very enjoyable to read.  In closing i would say this.Although the giant is who most wrestling fans will remember the humble man who was trapped in the giants body is the one who should never be forgotten.
1445	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Before “The Mountain” from “Game of Thrones” crushed his way into America’s living rooms and hearts and heads (literally), there was another giant man who was beloved by all. A gentler giant. (Not saying much in comparison to The Mountain, but whatever.) His name was Andre. And this graphic novel, “Andre The Giant: Life And Legend” ($12.00) tells the story of his life. Written and illustrated by Box Brown, who’s both a cartoonist and established biographer, this entertaining book is the first to tell the story of Andre Roussimoff, the French actor and professional wrestler who’s best known for his illustrious WWF career, playing the iconic role of Fezzik in “The Princess Bride” and of course, being the face of artist Shepard Fairey’s Obey Giant street art project.  At 7’4” tall and 520 pounds, Andre could’ve just been a really scary dude, but as Brown reveals, he was quite the character, loved by those who knew him. Using historical records and anecdotes from his wrestling colleagues, like Hulk Hogan, and movie co-stars like Mandy Patinkin, Billy Crystal and Robin Wright, Brown presents a side of Andre most of the world has never seen. Settle in with “Andre The Giant: Life and Legend” and get to know the man inside the one-armed black singlet. What you find is sure to surprise you.
1446	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I was so excited to receive this book (which was listed as one of YALSA's best graphic novels in recent times). Unfortunately it didn't live up to my expectations. The beginning and ending of the book seem to do a good job of focusing on Andre's personal and professional life, but a lot of the middle of the book seems to be a list of random things that happened in Andre's life, like all of the different times people treated him poorly, without any particular ""flow"" or order to it. I wasn't a huge fan of the parts with profanity or his sexual exploits either. Obviously this book is supposed to focus on real moments in Andre's life, which it apparently does, but it often does so without the feeling of a really cohesive narrative.  I did appreciate how the book was not just about Andre, but also about his legacy to professional wrestling. I liked how it described ""kayfabe"" and other intricacies of that line of work. Of course I liked seeing the part about his role in The Princess Bride. The book overall just didn't cut it for me, unfortunately. Someone else might enjoy it more; I was just expecting something different.  Disclaimer note: I was flipping around the book a bit--I didn't read every single page in exact sequential order--but I still read most of it and got a pretty good feel for it."
1447	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is a nice graphic novel biography about Andre the Giant. The artwork is great, and helps to tell the sometimes sad, sometimes hilarious life of one of professional wrestling's most memorable characters. This is well done, but I do wish it had been a bit more personal; all the stories definitely feel like they were told from outsiders looking at Andre's life, but not particularly detailed descriptions. Maybe that is all that exists, I don't know, but it seems like more family interviews and less barroom shenanigans would have served to get a look at what had to be at times a very lonely but fascinating life. I especially liked the scenes of him at his ranch, which do convey a bit more of his private life. This is of course compiled from interview and televisions appearances, so it is what it is, as Andre passed away in the nineties. Altogether enjoyable, but not for younger audiences. Which is sort of a bummer, as Andre the Giant's core audience was so often kids, this book would be a great teen and younger reader title. I think people who are relatively new to his story will love this, but as a longtime fan I wanted to know much more than how many beers Andre could drink, because that is well documented history already! :)
1448	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	In this short graphic novel, Box Brown details the life and times of wrestler Andre the Giant from his youth in France to his professional wrestling days, to his final years wrestling in Japan. Andre was diagnosed with acromegaly - an abundance of growth hormone that would mark his entire life. Andre’s story is fascinating in and of itself, but as the book progresses it becomes a meditation on how the man became a caricature because of his size, and ultimately how outliers suffer. As a side effect of his job, Andre was forced to spend a lot of time on planes, and again we see this repeat in the book, “I don’t think I’ll fit in the bathroom.”  I watched a lot of wrestling in my youth, though by the time I got into it, Andre the Giant was no longer a regular on the WWF. It was fun to see some old names like Bad News Brown, the Nasty Boys, Dusty Rhodes. It was a great trip down memory lane. Also whaaaaat he met Samuel Beckett in his youth? That’s crazy.  The author himself notes that it’s hard to distinguish fact from fiction, especially because wrestling is mostly fake. But I found this graphic novel to be a sincere and affectionate story of a complicated man, a story that never becomes too emotional.
1449	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I've never been much of a professional wrestling fan, but Princess Bride is one of my favorite movies so when I saw a graphic novel biography of Andre the Giant at the library I had to give it a try. At first it struck me as odd to see a bio of someone in graphic novel form but Andre was such a larger than life figure, a tall tale in the flesh, that it felt natural to see his story told using the medium most commonly associated with super heroes. This is a sad book, and for good reason, Andre led a sad life. He probably never felt truly comfortable anywhere, doctors told him he probably wouldn't live past 40, he was gawked at nearly everywhere he went, he felt daily pain as his joints began to wear down because of his size, and he tried to numb all of that pain with massive quantities of alcohol. The book stays away from hagiography and is honest about Andre's flaws as a father and a friend -- he had a daughter that he rarely saw and he had sometimes could be quite mean. But because the book is written by Box Brown, who is both a huge fan of Andre and professional wrestling, Andre is presented with great sympathy and it's hard not to feel for the guy while reading. All in all, a very unique book.
1450	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the Giant grew at a faster rate than most men. This admiring and frank graphic biography propels us through the man's life at a rate faster than most bios. We get flashes of the life, and detailed analysis of the legend. Assembled and illustrated from various interviews, memoirs and WWE DVD compilations, Box Brown had the collosal task of finding the best estimation of the truth from a bibliography of professional liars/tall tale tellers. What is portrayed is a clean patchwork of moments, chronological with a lot of white space, almost too much left unsaid about his subject. Andre may have been a giant, but through this telling, his barely mentioned daughter is the elephant in the room. Sometimes the unknowns are speculated upon. Andre's facial gestures while appearing on Letterman are given the blow-by-blow by Brown, a lifelong wrestling fan. A similar illustrated analysis is given to the Eighth Wonder's most famous match, against Hulk Hogan at the Pontiac Silverdome. Through the various backstage stories, we see a man hiding in an alcoholic haze, holding a dainty pint glass, firmly aware of the stare of onlookers and of a fast-approaching death. All of this might come off as depressing if it weren't for Brown's humor and humanity in depiction.
1451	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Title / Author / Publication Date: Andre the Giant: Life and Legend / Brown, Box. / 2014  Genre: Nonfiction  Format: Graphic Novel – print.  Plot summary: This is the story of Andre Roussimoff. He is better known as Andre the Giant. He is known for both the lovable giant in The Princess Bride and a heroic pro-wrestling figure. At his peak, he weighed 500 pounds and stood nearly seven and a half feet tall. The condition that caused his great size also caused health problems and he was told he would die by the age of 40. Brown draws from historical records about Andre's life as well as a wealth of anecdotes from his colleagues in the wrestling world, including Hulk Hogan, and his film co-stars (Billy Crystal, Robin Wright, Mandy Patinkin, etc).  Considerations or precautions for readers advisory: The graphic novel contains depictions of characters (including Andre) drinking and smoking. There is a lot of language. There are a few sexual references, but no sex depicted.  Review citation: Ryan P., D. (2014). Andre the Giant. School Library Journal, 60(5), 159.  Selection source used to find the material: 2015 Great Graphic Novels for Teens. Young Adult Library Services Association.  Recommended age: Ages 14 and Up 
1452	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'm fascinated by this story, both for its format but also for its content that tries to portray Andre the Giant in terms of his contributions to the sport of wrestling, but balance that with who he was as a person.  It's true that his life throughout the sixties, seventies, and eighties would have been much different than today with the way wrestling was during that time, but also in how people lived and what they knew. Pro-wrestling was entertainment, with planning and execution, stars could make millions on their personas and Andre used his stature, at over seven feet tall about about four-hundred pounds to make an impact. I couldn't imagine this book any other way than a graphic novel that pays homage to his life and doesn't sugar-coat the drinking, the little bit of womanizing, and the rigorous schedule that any sports figure has, but how unrelenting and sometimes lonely it could be. I appreciated the scenes when he remembered about or was on his ranch in North Carolina as much as I appreciated the glimpses into television with recreated/drawn famous interviews.  Brown is well-researched and provides a glossary, source notes, and a bibliography. Liked the blast from the past that brings it into the twenty-first century.
1453	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I grew up aware of professional wrestling and owned a Hulk Hogan finger puppet, but I was not in any way part of its culture. My boyfriend's family lived and breathed wrestling on the local (matches at the local Elks Lodge) and national level. I'm intrigued by this past time which was so foreign to me and love learning about it.  Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is one of the best things I've read about wrestling. Brown touches on Ed McMahon uniting the territories, the fact that wrestlers were independent contractors responsible for their own health insurance, and why the WWE doesn't pay taxes. These are all important pieces of the history and huge stories in their own right, but he provides just enough background for a reader to understand the context and how it relates to and affects Andre. It was wonderful and heartbreaking to be given a new perspective on Andre's life and the pain and discomfort (physical and social) he lived with every day.  Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for providing me with an egalley of this title. I have already recommended it to numerous friends.
1454	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is a trimmed down version of my review, to view the full review visit The Book Ramble.  I have waited and waited to read this graphic novel for months ever since I first heard about it. I was very excited for this and I am so glad I read it.  Brown tried, and succeeded, to show the complexities of Andre as a person and as a character within his wrestling career. I was impressed with the research that Brown did for this book. There are source notes, bibliography, and index of terms at the end of the book.  I really liked the art in this book as well. I thought Brown's style really matched well with the content and was really great to look at. I was impressed how well Brown depicted even the subtle changes in Andre's appearance as he grew older and sicker and how he captured Andre's character and spirit in his drawings.  I found this really enjoyable, and sometimes touching, graphic novel to read. If you're a fan of this style of graphic novel, wrestling, Andre the Giant, or biographies this is a must read.
1455	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I read this pretty much all in one sitting last night. I have vague memories of seeing clips from the Wrestlemania match of Andre vs. Hulk Hogan, have definitely seen the Princess Bride, and watched wrestling regularly with my father from birth until middle/high school-ish, and then on and off ever since. As a child, I insisted the whole thing was real, and it's only now from a few repeated viewings, the movie ""The Wrestler,"" and books like this that I'm starting to understand how it is all rigged.  This book covers the life of Andre. I think what I most appreciated about the book was how honest it was about all aspects of his life. He took wrestling seriously and could be very generous. He was also often drunk, callous, had a child and fought against child support payments. He died at 46, four years past when he was supposed to. I also enjoyed reading about his time on ""The Princess Bride"". This book is not for young fans of wrestling; in presenting Andre honestly, some lewd moments are left in, and there is a lot of drinking. For the high school fan or older, I think it's an excellent read.  I got my ARC as a prize from Nicole at BlueStockingThinking."
1456	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This graphic novel biography of Andre the Giant's life is an interesting read, cover to cover. I'm not a huge fan of the simplistic comic strip style, but somehow here it works. I found myself engrossed in the story. It wasn't deep, but bounced from incident to incident. It felt almost like a funeral where those that knew him sat around an told stories about the Andre they knew.  He wasn't the best of people and this publication does not try to push you in that direction. Instead it tells of a man who is told in his twenties that he would not make his forties. For years he tries to live his life to the fullest while drinking away his worries and fears.  He is a man who could never find long term happiness and so tried to find it in every individual moment that he could.  In the end, Andre appears to have been a complex man who was a friend to those who seemed worthy and who after dealing with people putting him down for years discovered that they were not worth his time in the end. For anyone who enjoys wresting, Andre, or enjoys tales of an outcast making good, even if only for a short while, I think you will find plenty to enjoy here.
1457	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	When I was in elementary and middle school, one of my brother and dad's favorite things to do was watch professional wrestling. I vividly remember characters such as Rick Flair, the Macho Man Randy Savage, Hulk Hogan and Brett Hart. Andre the Giant was someone I was aware of, but he exited the wrestling world before Craig really got into wrestling. I fondly remember his turn as Fezzick in The Princess Bride, and it was through Cary Elwes' memoir about his time on the set of The Princess Bride, As You Wish that really spiked my interest in Andre.  Box Brown does an exceedingly good job in taking the tidbits that exist here and there about Andre Roussimoff and putting them together into a coherent narrative that brings Andre to big, vibrant life. Reading the bibliography that Box used was fascinating, as most of the sources he referenced were either on video or were personal interviews. I'm surprised that someone who loomed as large as Andre did didn't already have a formal biography written about him. The art that accompanies the stories is spare, but fitting. This is a fantastic read and I can see teens who are aware of Andre gobbling it up.
1458	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	As a child, I remember my paternal grandmother spending part of Saturday afternoon watching wrestling matches that were televised. She couldn't live without those matches while it was clear to me that they were fake and staged. This graphic novel, focusing on Andre the Giant, who grew up in France and later became famous because of his size and wrestling prowess, helped me see that there was an art to all that fakery that I had dismissed as a youngster. The book features brief comments from others in the boxing world such as Hulk Hogan and provides insight into the life of Andre. There is plenty of humor sprinkled throughout the book, but also many sections that are heartbreaking as Andre deals with bullying, ridicule, fame, and the knowledge that his acromegaly will result in an early death. The book touched me, and left me wanting to know more about this giant of a man who seemed to have a giant heart and lust for life. I wish there had been a little bit more about his relationships and paternity matters. 
1459	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Really interesting story, simple and clean black and white art that lets you get the story without getting in the way. I do wish the art were a little more detailed as I had a hard time envisioning Andre himself at least a few times - his picture just didn't look like I thought he looked most of the time. I had no idea about Andre's history or the history of wrestling, and the latter is really interesting! Hulk Hogan had a big part that I also didn't know about, and seeing such a recognizable face (knowing nearly nothing about wrestling) was nice. Overall, a great graphic biography. I'd recommend it to anyone looking for an interesting story, certainly anyone who's interested in wrestling or Andre the Giant, and fans of stories like My Friend Dahmer or Wizzywig: Portrait of a Serial Hacker (similarly, fans of this kind of comic would like those, too!).
1460	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the Giant: Life & Legend by Box Brown (First Second 2014) (Biography). I loved “old school live wrestling” at Chilhowee Park in Knoxville, Tennessee on Friday nights in the 1960's and the 1970's. This was the southeastern circuit of professional wrestling. Admission was $3.00, and there were four or more matches each Friday. Andre the Giant was the Babe Ruth of wrestling in this era; he was so big that he rarely wrestled in Knoxville since the Friday night Chilhowee Park matches were never televised (though other Knoxville matches were). Andre was on tv all the time in the South from Charlotte and Atlanta.  This book is a pure graphic novel of Andre; it makes him even larger than life. Would this entice a reader (or viewer) to further explore Andre the Giant? Sure. So I suppose graphic novels are a positive development.  ***All references in this review are to pre-Vince McMahan professional wrestling. I consider all pre-Vince McMahan professional wrestling to be “old school.” ***   My rating: 7/10, finished 11/19/14.
1461	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"It's hard to tell who this book is intended for. You'd think that the primary audience for a book about Andre the Giant would be wrestling fans who want to know more about Andre. The fact the book explains virtually every part of wrestling terminology and even breaks down both a standard Andre match and the Hogan/Andre WM3 match makes this seem more like an introductory book seems like an odd choice. More odd is the way the book skips around from story to story in Andre's life without really telling us much beyond the dual facts that 1) he could be a real jerk and 2) he was in a lot of pain. If this is truly meant to be a ""substantive biography"", a bit more detail would be nice. There's little that is exciting and new in this unless you've never read anything at all about the subject in which case this would whet your appetite for something else. I'd recommend the WWE ""Larger than Life"" DVD which is the source for a few of these stories, as per the back matter in the book.  Having said all that, I LOVE Box Brown's art and it's a gorgeous book. So, mixed feelings here."
1462	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'm not entirely sure how this read made me feel. I don't know much about professional wrestling and I know less about Andre the Giant and I was hoping that this might give me some more insight on either subject, but it didn't really do that. It was a decent (albeit short) synopsis of his life and the challenges he faced, but it wasn't terribly in depth nor did it seem to articulate if Andre was an especially good or bad guy. Anatomically, he was a marvel and, I'm sure, professionally he was fun to watch, but he also drank a lot (and not just for his size, apparently) and wasn't around for his family. Maybe there is more to his story, but with this being my main source of knowledge about his life, this is all I have to go on. I felt this story could have gone into more depth with personal accounts (I enjoyed the introduction with Hulk Hogan and I wish there had been more of those intermittent in this story) as well as his legacy after his passing (they discussed the success in his life, but very little about the legend aspect following his passing). 
1463	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Box Brown pays tribute to the life of Andre the Giant in this graphic novel. Using historical facts and anecdotes, Brown illustrates the ups and downs that faced Andre Roussimoff. Starting with his boyhood in France - where his size prevented him from being taken to school by the normal bus - Andre's life is one of being unable to fit in. Despite using his size to gain international fame as a pro wrestler, that same gigantism ostracized Andre to the fringes of society before leading to the acromegaly that would later claim his life. The various stories contained within this book attempt to paint a portrait of a flawed man dealing with the cards life dealt him. Tributes from Hulk Hogan, cast memories from the set of the Princess Bride, and even notes from his one-night stand daughter all help provide inside to the man once considered the 8th Wonder of the World. This fitting tribute to the gentle giant is a big hit for any bookshelf.
1464	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Because professional wrestling is pop story-telling filled with melodrama and cartoon-ish characters, a graphic novel is the perfect marriage of format and content for Box Brown’s Andre the Giant: Life and Legend. Arguably the best known professional wrestler of all time, Andre the Giant weighed 600 pounds and stood well over seven feet tall. He was world-famous in the wrestling ring, and eventually appeared in movies and on talk shows. Cartoonist Box Brown portrays Andre as a human excessive in his vices but also kind and gentle at times, as well as a sympathetic figure whose size was due to a disease (acromegaly) that made people stare at him in fear from an early age, caused him daily physical pain, and led to an early death. Andre the Giant: Life and Legend includes a few eff-bombs and sexual situations that may make it questionable for some younger readers, but this is perfect for those who want to read something like Derf Backderf’s My Friend Dahmer.
1465	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Box Brown is an incredible comic book artist and for a first wide release, this was an interesting and entertaining read. My only criticism would be the sort of harsh racist joke that Andre makes in the book. I understand the artists right to express and explain old wrestling stories how they want, but the way it was done in this was a little bit tasteless. It happens a little earlier in the book and kind of sets a weird tone that might put people off from looking into Professional Wrestling and Andre The Giant. The same joke about wrestler Bad News Brown is in a zine called The Atomic Elbow (fantastic read, by the way) and it showed a few wrestlers sort of not defending this wrestler and it's a little bit sad and sort of not necessary, specially done twice. Anyway, besides that, I think that Box Brown made something very genuine and entertaining. Illustration alone is incredible. Will definitely check his other work out.
1466	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"More like ""André the Giant: Anecdotes"", Brown's graphic novel is skimpy on the biography, but rich in those small moments of André's life that may otherwise be glossed over by a more serious chronicler. The book shines when outlining wrestling matches, including insights on ""the show"" put on by its performers. Unfortunately, for a book that uses the subtitle ""Life and Legend"", there is very little depth to André's story here. One need only look at the Bibliography to note that the majority of Brown's sources are DVD interviews; they are anecdotal and often disjointed. Brown's art is clean and attractive, but this comes off as more a serialized than fully fleshed out look at André's life. While I have few points of comparison in terms of graphic novel biographies, Chester Brown's Louis Riel: A Comic-Strip Biography, comes to mind as the model by which Brown should have followed. 5/10 (Average)"
1467	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"graphic novel that takes a couple hours to plow through and enjoy. It kept me interested, I learned some things about wrestling and I love the artist's simple and consistent illustration style.  What was a letdown was how crappy Andre comes across in the book. It seemed like there was nothing redemptive about his character other than he understood and respected ""the business."" He doesn't come across as a 100% asshole but more like a 60% asshole who keeps it at 60% the whole book.  SPOILERS-- Interesting tidbit: it's implied that Andre had to give himself enemas before long flights because he couldn't fit in the restroom, and he often had to fly overseas.  Loved the story of him refusing to leave a bar and no one could resolve how to eject him forcefully, even after the police arrived. Andre was really just drinking and minding his own business while the police stood around wondering what the hell to do about it."
1468	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This book was sent to me as a digital ARC through Netgalley.  Andre the Giant: Life and Legend manages to be a warts-and-all look at Andre the Giant while keeping him sympathetic and loveable. I'm not a pro wrestling fan, but the wrestling sequences were set up in a way that they kept me engaged and sticking around for the terrific stories in between. I loved the approach to the part where Samuel Beckett drives Andre to school. It's obvious who Beckett is, but she doesn't bang you over the head with it like IT'S SAMUEL BECKETT! LOOK!!! WAITING FOR GODOT!!! ISN'T THIS GREAT??? Instead, she lets the scene flow with a few winks to readers.  The artwork is great, cute without being too cutesy. When I saw the first panel with Hulk Hogan, I know I was going to like this book.  I'd definitely recommend this and plan on buying it for my library.
1469	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	We're looking at more of a collection of anecdotes here rather than a biography proper but I still enjoyed myself. I'm not into wrestling at all and my only knowledge of Andre is his role as Fezzick in the Princess Bride so this was a great look at his life outside of the Princess Bride - especially considering the Princess Bride stories were all once I've heard before thanks to the DVD extras.  He was a man who had a great respect for 'the business' and was a man who never really fit in anywhere, literally as much as figuratively. Perhaps that's the reason that this presented the way it is. You're not going to leave having a deeper understanding of Andre's psyche or anything super profound like that that but it's a quick, funny, and poignant read with simple art that you can't help but enjoy.
1470	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I have never been a wrestling fan, but I know and like Andre the Giant because of his role in The Princess Bride. I gravitated toward this book because graphic novels tend to be very easy to read and this one was about a subject I knew very little about.  While I enjoyed reading this, I did not come away from it with a great understanding of who Andre was, only that he was a large man who sometimes had a hard time fitting into normal situations like riding the bus to school, sleeping in a hotel room bed, or even fitting on an operating table. His behavior seemed bipolar, and the only motivation seemed to be his constant drinking. The series of vignettes does not leave us with a whole portrait of a man, and that is why I felt this book to be lacking.
1471	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was quite well done: as the author says in the introduction, there are many stories about Andre the Giant and it is difficult to know how much is true and how much is exaggerated, but this book presents a fairly balanced view of what this larger-than-life man's real life was most likely like. I had heard/read some of the stories before, but it was neat to see them illustrated here. I also found the inside look into the world of professional wrestling quite fascinating! (And I'm not even a fan!) Of course, the bit about the filming of The Princess Bride was my favorite part. ;-)
1472	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A sparely written yet moving story of one of the best-known superstars of professional wrestling, also known for his touching role in the movie The Princess Bride. Brown doesn't sugar-coat the story; he covers the seedy behind-the-scenes aspects of wrestling back in the day, as well as Andre's drinking, womanizing and other flaws. But he also draws - literally - a picture of a hard-working, kind and loyal man who struggled with his size, his health issues and the almost certain knowledge that he would die young. Not for kids, but a must-read for adult fans. 
1473	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Another home run from First Second, an imprint of Roaring Brook Press. Author/artist Box Brown (where can I get a name like that? love it) did extensive research to add to his fan-since-a-kid wrestling knowledge. We see 12-year old kid in France driven to school in the back of a pick-up because he didn't fit on the school bus. And we see his struggles as an adult surviving in a world so small that even the basic life functions -- like using a toilet or sleeping in a bed -- were incredibly difficult for Andre Rousimoff. Two thumbs up.
1474	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	 I didn't realize this would be a graphic novel. I saw it was a Young Adult novel when I reserved it from the library, but I didn't think about the graphic novel aspect until I picked it up. Still, it's a solid read about Andre's life, especially his time wrestling. I remember Andre the Giant wrestling when I was a kid. I loved him in The Princess Bride. I know he didn't have an easy life, and his drinking exploits were legendary. The book added enough to detail to what I already knew that I enjoyed it, although I didn't love it.
1475	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"A basic biography of Andre the Giant. The art is solid and clean and it tells his life focusing on his wrestling career--which should not be ignored, as that is what made him a legend.  In my opinion, the stories about Andre from ""As You Wish: Inconceivable Tales from the Making of The Princess Bride"" by Cary Elwes provide a better sense of a kind and gentle giant who was lonely because of his immense stature. Andre had to live life because he knew he would never live to be an old man. He could have been angry and mean and sad about his fate, but instead was kind."
1476	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The giant film star and wrestling sensation's entire life is chronicled in this graphic novel featuring appearances from a lot of faces I know and love (or don't). Any reader could easily learn a lot about pro wrestling culture from this title, and anyone could probably at least enjoy his story and appreciate his struggles. As a middle school librarian, I would not place this on my shelf because of the excessive drinking, sex, and f-bombs, but it was definitely a wonderful read for the right people.
1477	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	An interesting funnybook biography on the life of Andre Roussimoff, more commonly known as Andre the Giant. His unchecked growth resulted from acromegaly, a disease of the pituitary gland in which the patient's body simply continues to grow. Unfortunately, the patient ages prematurely and their internal organs cannot keep up with the growth. Most sufferers do not make it to 40.  The book depicts Andre leading a somewhat lonely, alcohol-fueled life fraught with ill treatment by people. He died at 46.
1478	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"A well-researched biography in graphic novel form. It was refreshing to read a book about wrestling that was written with such love and care for the subject (from someone outside of the industry). Well-done artwork, with Andre standing out in the panels, as the ""giant"" he was. This is a ""mature"" graphic novel; there is some language and sexual situations that are inappropriate for younger readers. *received from NetGalley* thanks!"
1479	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This rating/review is based on an ARC from netgalley.  I don't know much about wrestling, but I am a fan of the Princess Bride. That's basically the entirety of my Andre the Giant knowledge. This was a really illuminating portrait of an interesting human being. I really appreciated the glossary of wrestling terms and the extensive bibliography and documentation. I will likely recommend this to teen boys who love wrestling. So, like, all the teen boys at the library.
1480	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I am really taken with non-fiction graphic novels. I already legitimately love non-fiction books and love graphic novels, so the combination for Andre The Giant: Life And Legend by Box Brown had me over the moon excited. I really also wanted to read Andre The Giant: Life And Legend for some hopeful bits on the film The Princess Bride. Read the rest of my review here
1481	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I learned last year that black and white graphic novels can be fairly good biographies despite their minimalist approach.  I enjoyed last year's My Friend Dahmer and while shorter and less dark this very quick read still gives you a fairly good sense as to what Andre was like to be around.  
1482	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I wish I liked this more. The art is really nice. The stories are interesting. I just didn't come away feeling like I knew a lot about Andre's life? Maybe there just wasn't that much to tell, since Andre was so dedicated to wrestling. Or he lacked many sources that he felt comfortable using for the story. Not sure. At any rate, worth a read for wrestling fans. I'm sure a bigger fan than I, particularly that watched the wrestling that Andre was part of, will like this.
1483	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I really only knew of Andre the Giant from his role as Fezzik in The Princess Bride so reading this graphic novel biography was fascinating. I also learned A LOT about pro-wrestling. The book shows the glamorous parts of Andre’s life, but also the parts that were not so great (he had a young daughter, for example, that he had no contact with). Brown has written/illustrated a fair and thoughtful portrayal of a complicated individual whose size greatly impacted his whole life. 
1484	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Enh.  I appreciate the effort and obvious love that went into making a non-fiction book about Andre the Giant. Box Brown carefully cites sources and explains some of the choices he made trying to figure out ""what really happened."" The problem is that the information remains of dubious truth and the book is presented as a series of anecdotes without any over-arching story.  Also, while the drawings have charm, some of the narrative work is less than coherent."
1485	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Great use of the visual medium to tell the story of a large man. The book feels episodic at times, but that's probably what life is like for a professional wrestler traveling the world. There are some wonderful stories in here and it's a joy to read and remember Andre. I definitely got a better sense of the man, but again in an anecdotal way. Still, I'll take it. Box Brown's passion for the sports-entertainment is apparent and makes for a very enjoyable read. 
1486	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was ok...there were a few insights about Andre's life that I didn't know, but maybe I just expected more from this. It was so simplistic and jumped around a lot. And it felt like it touched on some very deep subjects but never really went into anything in depth. I know it's a graphic novel and all, but it came across as over-simplifying someone's entire life, and especially someone who was such a complex person, it just didn't work for me. 
1487	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	If this comic was about any other professional wrestler there is virtually no way I ever would have picked it up, but Andre the Giant was... Andre the frick'n Giant. Interesting not because he was a wrestler, but in spite. That being said this book offered not only a small window into the person and the life of Andre the Giant, but also and interesting peek at the professional wrestling world. Reading this book was a couple hours well spent. 
1488	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is a deceptively simple graphic biography of Andre the Giant, both in linework and text. It's more episodic than the typical biography, focusing on key moments in Andre's life that trace a classically tragic line - the cause of the physique that defined his talent led to his early death. Have a reluctant reader who loves professional wrestling? A more perfect pairing of text and reader would be hard to find.
1489	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	via NYPL - the cartooning is good, each scene works well unto itself. However, the book lacked an overall structure - it read like a series of Andre anecdotes strung along in chronological order, and many of the anecdotes are well enough known that a very casual wrestling fan such as myself has heard them in other places. Still, the cartooning is top notch, so there are worse ways to experience these tales!
1490	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I really enjoyed Box Brown's artwork. While simple, it was very beautiful and still managed to capture the characters' or real life characters' expressions. It did seem more like anecdotes than a linear story more like this happened then this happened, etc. While emotionally moving at times, I can't tell if I walked away liking Andre or not. Still an nice introduction of the legendary wrestler. 
1491	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	a sweet way to spend an hour, going through the mechanics & drama of the theater that grips many pre - teen boys, myself included. Andre was born to a role, & he made the most of it. Brown is a great storyteller, working with a lot of the same dramatic elements wrestling employs for its narratives: fixed outcomes, flourishing tropes, and a fair amount of invention at the level of details. Also you get Sam Beckett, Rocky Balboa, & the cast of the Princess Bride.
1492	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It opened up some insights into Andre's life, which seemed to be mostly traveling, wrestling, and drinking heavily. He got the hand shaking bit wrong for Princess Bride, as it was Mandy Pantinkin who shook his hand every day as he tells it, not Christopher Guest. It was known I believe, that Andre' was a devout Christian, but the book never talks about whether that's true or not. But still, an interesting little bio.
1493	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Don't go into this hoping for anything close to a full biography of André René Rousimoff, because this is instead a series of barely linked vignettes meant to give an impression of the man known as Andre the Giant. The snapshots skip through time and major elements (wait, he had a kid?) are introduced without fanfare late in the game. That doesn't matter, if you look at this as almost a visual version of watching Andre's pals swap stories about the legendary wrestler. As that, it's delightful.
1494	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A delightful telling of the life of the wrestling superstar. His youth in France, his career in Japan & the us, his appearance in the classic fantasy film The Princess Bride.  It doesn't gloss over the pain caused by his condition, the alcoholism it caused, or unpleasant incidents like the Bad News Brown incident or his neglect for his daughter.  It is a good graphic biography of a fascinating character. Suitable for fans of wrestling and graphic storytelling alike.
1495	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Bittersweet. I think of André, for lack of better words a giant in my childhood. He seemed untouchable. As I grew older I learned more about how fragile he really was. There were cute anecdotes, some humour and some insights to who he was. He still is a mystery. It's a good read for anyone who remembers him or loves wrestling in the 70's and 80's. The graphics are simple black and white panels which complements the story. The lack of flash and colours makes the story real and truthful.
1496	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	3.5 stars - 4 stars for the art, 3 for the story.  It's told in vignette form, but all these little tiny moments of Andre's life add up to the man. I always assumed Andre the Giant was what people would consider a 'gentle giant.' But he wasn't. And he wasn't a bad dude, necessarily, but he did drink way too much and he did abandon his daughter. So he was human,  Probably I would have liked it more if I liked wrestling. The author is very clearly a major wrestling fan.
1497	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Told in a series of vignettes from his illustrious (albeit brief) life, this biography shows the good, the bad and the downright despicable aspects of Andre the Giant. Despite his apparent womanizing, casual bigotry and drinking problem, Andre is remembered fondly and reverently as the gentle giant, and this quick read shows just how important a good PR team and the ability to apologize really is.
1498	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	more vignette-y than I had anticipated. Brown has pulled together some great stories from a lot of sources to show different sides of Andre the Giant, but I ended up feeling like I still didn't really know the guy as much as I wanted to. and I don't think that was the intention. still, I love the space on the page that Brown's simple lines create. I have a migraine so I don't know if that makes sense.
1499	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A rather interesting graphic novel biography of the wrestler with acromegaly, with a lot of info about the mechanics of pro wrestling, some of which I knew, some I didn't. Andre wasn't a very nice guy, it seems, but he didn't have a great life because of his size and constant traveling for his job. He was one of a kind, that's for sure. It's not the kind of detailed art that I like but its rough style suited its subject.
1500	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Ok, I read this only because I LOVE ""The Princess Bride"" so much; the teeny-tiny section on ""The Princess Bride"" was great, and the rest I just kind of got through. I have no passion for wrestling. I mostly felt pity for Andre, which of course, isn't a great thing. The author stated that many of the passages came from his own interpretations of events (citing in the back of the book), but it made me wonder about some of the events."
1501	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I really wanted to like this book, because I love Andre the Giant, and have nothing but fond memories of him. The book told a lot of stories that, while I'm sure are true, weren't very endearing. The book felt very disjointed, jumping from one story to another, without any real closure or explanation, with a few words spattered here and there for dialogue. I wish this book told more of a complete story.
1502	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I picked this up because yesterday was the birthday of Andre the Giant. A wonderful, short, and bittersweet look at the life and times of the legend. Very readable, even to those who are not wrestling fans. The epigraph, a quote from Roland Barthes, is very apt with regards to this unforgettable character and person: ""The function of the wrestler is not to win; it is to go exactly though the motions which are expected of him."""
1503	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A humorous and oftentimes poignant look at a figure who retains his near-mythical status even today in the public consciousness. More a collection of vignettes than any kind of outright biography, Brown's book depicts Andre as an ordinary man living with extraordinary circumstances who is capable of beauty and ugliness in equal shares, just like the rest of us. Anyone curious about it is encouraged to give it a chance.
1504	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I don't care for wrestling, you would think with my interest in superheroes and comics I would be but no. However I have always liked Andre and that is more to do with The Princess Bride. This book is wonderful, beautiful line work and pacing and the composition is spot on. Draftsmanship in a comic book story is everything and this guy has it. Even if you don't like wrestling or Andre this is stills great read.
1505	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A short biography of Andre the Giant that’s remarkably thin on insights or exposition. The section on the Princess Bride is especially notable since it’s only about two pages long, and would make zero sense to anyone unfamiliar with the movie. I feel like the whole book is similarly sparse, just serving perhaps as a reminder to people already familiar with Andre Roussimoff’s life, but not conveying anything to those who aren’t. The artwork is fine, but nothing special.
1506	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Compassionate portrait of André the Giant who is widely known as a wrestler and a star in The Princess Bride. Readers may not know about his alcoholism or racism, among other issues. For a man who was in an immense amount of pain and who was told he wouldn't live past 40, he certainly made the best out of his lot in life. Interesting even for those who don't love (or know anything about) wrestling.
1507	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	As Box Brown says in the beginning of this book, it was a challenge to understand from the point of view of a narrative. He does a nice job of weaving it together so it feels like there is a beginning, middle, and end, but you can definitely tell that it was a struggle. The story of Andre the Giant's life is a fascinating topic, and it really feels like Box Brown captures the essence of who the man was. I really liked how it was relatively uncut. 
1508	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"This book is great for wrestling fans that want to know more about ""the 8th wonder of the world"" Andre the Giant, and his life. Andre is one of the most unique wrestlers in the world. Andre would get mad when people around him said, ""Wrestling is Fake."" This book shows the backstory of the Hulk Hogan vs. Andre the Giant WrestleMania 3 match. This book shows what Andre did as a kid and after retirement before his death."
1509	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Narrative biographies always bother me a little bit because I never know where the author chose to embellish or fill in the gaps, so I was really happy to see that Box Brown clearly cited his sources and mentioned where he had to fill in the blanks to tell the story of Andre's life. Tempered by his clear adoration of Andre, Brown doesn't shy away from the sometimes unsavory aspects of his personality. What results is a tribute to an incredible life told in a powerfully unsentimental way.
1510	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I'm not sure how to feel about this book. The author seemed to spend a lot of time idolizing Andre the Giant as the ""greatest of the greats,"" but also a lot of time pointing out his follies and foibles. Additionally, the matter-of-fact presentation and the simple art style made this seem like a book geared towards a younger audience, but there was enough swearing and drinking and etc. to make that very much not the case. It was an oddly contradictory book."
1511	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A good but ultimately short glimpse into the life of Andre the Giant. The artwork, like the story, is only detailed in places, but gives a moving view of the whole story. People who only know him from The Princess Bride will get a broader understanding of his life as a wrestler. Followed up by notes about specific scenes, a glossary of some of the wrestling terms, and a bibliography for further reading, it's worth the time for fans of Andre and people who would like to learn more about him. 
1512	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A good, but not great graphic biography of Andre the Giant. It's mainly a series of vignettes from his life gathered from other sources. So, it's not really a cohesive narrative, which might have enhanced the overall reading experience or at least made it more engaging. It provides a good picture of his life, but you want to know more, especially more about his children. The art is fun and delightful.
1513	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Not a wrestling fan, I hadn't heard about Andre the Giant before I saw The Princess Bride, but he certainly made an impression there. Having since picked up a few details about him, and now read this book, I can say that his life is quite the tall tale and worth reading. Neither gentle giant or ogre, he was a big man who lived large, and who would not (indeed could not!) be pushed against his will.
1514	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"This isn't an overly long piece (only 240 pages or so) but it's an effective one, giving the reader a look at moments in Andre the Giant's life and how they kind of sculpt society's view of him today. It does get a little ""insider-y"" with some of the wrestling terms but there is a glossary in the back of the book. I enjoyed how visually simplistic it was as well. Worth your time if you're looking for a quick read."
1515	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I have been a pro wrestling fan since 6th grade, Andre the giant is one of those figures who it’s hard for me to imagine was ever a real breathing human being- something like George Washington.  This story is drawn in his quirky style which I think helps make the story flow, even as it gets more and more depressing . He had a dark life. I would recommend this and the hbo documentary for a full understanding of the legacy of the Andre.  
1516	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A poignant look at the life one very unique pop culture phenomenon. Loaded with tiny details and moments that bring Andre to life better than a thousand-page biography could. The artwork is bold and expressionistic: a joy to peruse all by itself.  A stunning moment in the life and legend of Box Brown!
1517	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Box Brown is the perfect artist to do this book--his deceivingly simple lines work really well with showing us a man who was a relatively complex person. I was left wanting more detail and depth in Andre's story, however, and some more depth. This book is great for what it is--a non-comprehensive biography. I guess I just wanted to know much more about Andre...
1518	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	My biggest complaint is that it's all in black and white, which I hate in graphic novels.  The story was ok, painted a faint picture of Andre the Giant's life, alluding to how hard it was being a giant and other, so I wanted to hear more about that, less about his WWE wrestling matches.  Some scenes w foul language, used to show that he wasn't just this sweet guy, might upset some.
1519	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	My biggest complaint is that it's all in black and white, which I hate in graphic novels.  The story was ok, painted a faint picture of Andre the Giant's life, alluding to how hard it was being a giant and other, so I wanted to hear more about that, less about his WWE wrestling matches.  Some scenes w foul language, used to show that he wasn't just this sweet guy, might upset some.
1520	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I have loved Andre the Giant since the first time I saw The Princess Bride. I always thought he would make a good friend.  There seems to be a new wave of telling biographical and nonfiction stories through graphic novels. I hope this continues because it helps history come alive for the modern and young reader.
1521	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	My only knowledge of Andre is from the movie The Princess Bride. This was a fascinating look at the world of wrestling in it's early form as an entertainment and the examination of a man who was unlike any other. Box Brown does not pull any punches (unlike the wrestlers) so you get a very balanced look at Andre, his life, his work, and his legacy.  
1522	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The tragic and wonderful life of Andre the Giant makes for a quick and fascinating read, and the graphic novel format is perfect for telling the story of the Eighth Wonder of the World. My two favorite anecdotes from the book are the fact that Samuel Beckett once gave Andre a ride to school and that on the set of the Princess Bride he racked up a $40,000 bar tab.
1523	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Not bad, but not great. Neither works particularly well as biography or comic. It's basically a random stream of anecdotes about Andre strung together with decent enough artwork. Doesn't really reveal much about Andre. Also the research seems to be mostly drawn from old wrestling DVD interviews and matches. Worth a try, but don't expect too much.
1524	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	One of the things we liked most about this book is that they used wrestling terminology throughout the story, and even included a glossary in the back for those who are not familiar. Another cool thing was they didn't paint him as a good guy or a bad guy, but as Andre himself. This is a great read for anyone who enjoys wrestling
1525	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Want to know about Andre the Giant? Check. Want to know about WWF? DIdn't know that's what this was about when you picked it up off the ""New Book"" shelf and because it had been too long since you read the reviews (or the reviews nicely didn't mention it clearly enough)? Check.  HIGHLY enjoyable on both Andre and WWF accounts. Strongly recommended. *throws chair*"
1526	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I've been meaning to read this for a while now, and finally I did. As a fan of WWE wrestling, there was no way I was going to miss out on reading about the life of one of the best wrestlers in history.  Andre the Giant's story felt so personal and relatable, and I loved how it was told in graphic novel form.  Highly recommended for all WWE fans.
1527	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I really liked learning more about Andre the Giant, especially since the most I knew about him was from his role in The Princess Bride. He was an interesting man, and I like the fact that the author/illustrator explained ""wrestling"" techniques that are used. The scenes transitioned well and showed more so than told what kind of person Andre was."
1528	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	3 1/2  I was expecting for a more coherent biography. Instead, it's more a collection of anecdotes and memories of Andre culled mostly from old shoot interviews. The art is simple and works well for the story being told. It's a good quick read, especially for those interested in professional wrestling or those who only know Andre from Princess Bride and are interested in more.
1529	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This book was a series of anecdotes told in comic form. I like many of the stories, but I was expecting a more coherent narrative. The book was trying to show people the big picture, but I felt like it failed to do so. Still, it should be a quick and fun read for anybody who's into 70s-80s pro wrestling.
1530	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"As a fan of WWF and graphic novels, this book was perfect for me. I remember crying my eyes out when Andre ""went bad,"" and now the grown me understands why he did, and I'm crying for different reasons. Brown does an amazing job of capturing the essence of a truly complicated subject (wrestling and Mr. The Giant."
1531	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This graphic biography shows Andre the Giant, warts and all. His size and growth disorder made his life incredibly difficult and painful and his response was to self-medicate. The book shows how ignorant and mean people can be to someone who's different. It's an honest book, not a feel good book.
1532	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was surprisingly hard to read. Any time you find out your heroes have a sordid past it's like having someone shatter a hopeful part of you, you didn't know you had. When I see Andre the Giant he is Fezzik from Princess Bride. Learning more about his life was deeply saddening and just doesn't compute with the man I had built up in my mind. 
1533	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Nice artwork from Box Brown, and a nice distillation of sources to provide brief episodes from different parts of Andre's life, not all of which portray him in the best light. It doesn't quite get into the inner life of the man, but that doesn't seem to be something that many people knew much about.
1534	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This book was very informative! I learned a lot about Andre the Giant, but also about pro-wrestling as Box Brown [the author] broke down the moves and tendencies of wrestlers in his drawings. I would definitely be interested in reading more graphic novels about pro-wrestling, but I'm not sure if this inspired me enough to begin actually watching it.
1535	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"(graphic novel) Gritty, realistic look at the life of a giant and the ""real"" world of wrestling. In some ways I like the spareness of it but I also would have liked more information about him and how he truly felt going through his hardships. Doesn't pull any punches about his bad behavior or incredible drinking and ensuing craziness. Some language. "
1536	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Some of this book and comments made that Andre said or didn't say (since it was written after he passed) I wonder about the accuracy.  Granted I know he was flawed. But I've read other memoirs where he was mentioned (Cary Elwes' book specifically) that speak of Andre in nothing but amazing ways.  As a kid of the 80s and watching AWA/WWF wrestling, this book was easy to read.
1537	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It is difficult to capture the raw power of Andre the Giant in any medium really , but what Box Brown did in this book is really commendable. It covered major and minor incidents in an exceptional life, showed some good and some bad, and ultimately made me want to read a longer form bio of the man. I highly recommend it. Read it in one sitting
1538	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This graphic novel was a little unsatisfying. It felt like more of a collection of anecdotes than a full biography. I still don’t have that much of a sense of Andre the Giant’s life. Also this is really more of a personal preference than anything but the art was super sparse. I read more comics than graphic novels but I definitely like colorful, realistic art more. This was an adjustment.
1539	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Brown’s art is fun and fits the legend of Andre and the world of professional wrestling well. Andre’s life makes for an interesting read, but there isn’t enough done to explain why he acts the way he does. Brown’s passion for his subject and wrestling in general constantly shines through though and that’s what really made this an enjoyable read for me.
1540	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was a great book considering how fragmented and rooted in myth Andre's legacy is. I love the simple art style and appreciate that the author took time to explain wrestling terminology. He also did an excellent job of placing the story within context. My only complaint was that the ending seemed a little too abrupt. Otherwise, it was a wonderful read. I would highly recommend it. 
1541	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I don't know - I think if you are not inordinately fond of Andre the Giant, something is wrong with you. I can admit that I was totally down with the WWF during the 80s, so that probably added a dimension to my enjoyment of this. But, I enjoyed it immensely.
1542	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"""The fuzzy line between truth and fiction in professional wrestling matches extends to the stories wrestlers tell about each other outside of the ring - and stories about Andre the Giant can be especially hard to judge."" p.7"
1543	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I quite enjoyed this. It does a good job of painting Andre in an even light. Until this book I was not even aware he was a wrestler, my only experience with him being the Princess Bride. Funny, interesting, and bittersweet. 
1544	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	3.5stars I enjoyed it as it showed some of Andre's life but I guess if I'm hoping for even more depth I need to read his biography proper. I did however get his passion and pain living his unique life. still a good read.
1545	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A good, minimalist approach to what I'm certain is a complicated and abundant life that can hardly be encapsulated in a one-volume graphic novel. A very commendable rendition, however. Box Brown should be lauded for his work, and the passion he brings to detailing his subject.
1546	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This Andre the Giant biography by Box Brown was a quick one, but a very fun and also sad one for a Saturday night. Would definitely recommend for anyone interested in the history of wrestling or the Princess Bride.
1547	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Full of enlightening stories, and told with a great sense of gentleness without brushing over the worse parts of Andre's story. It's a little rushed and choppy, but a surprisingly endearing biography.
1548	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	In comic form, an introductory biography of the legendary wrestler. Taken from interviews with those who knew and worked with him, much of the material here is familiar to fans, but there are some details that more fully flesh out the man behind the legend. 
1549	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I don't like giving 3 stars, but this one was ok, nothing more. Andre the Giant's story is no doubt interesting, but the scene changes that happened on nearly every page or two just cut the flow of the story too much.
1550	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Great art and a good synopsis of his life.
1551	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Excellent look at one of the most recognizable stars ever. As a long time wrestling fan I always enjoy getting a peek behind the curtain.
1552	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Really nice, really warm, really interesting.
1553	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Kinda wanna give this five stars. It's pretty excellent.
1554	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Well-drawn, unsentimental yet touching. The way the author narrates the wrestling scenes to tell you what is really happening is fascinating.
1555	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	What a great story. Touching. 
1556	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Fun, but a little disjointed. I'm glad to learn more about Andre's story, but the delivery didn't flow very well. Nicely documented, though - clearly the result of careful research.
1557	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was impossible to put down. I've never read a biography that looks like a graphic novel.
1558	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I am thoroughly impressed. A quick read, and sad. Andre is most certainly the hero, despite his flaws.
1559	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Always loved Andre the Giant. Grew up with the Wrestlemania performance referenced in the book as a nationalism builder. Sad and lonely little book.
1560	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	 I feel this is a copy of the book an unexpected adventure that is very good and really makes you think a lot
1561	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I've been a fan of Andre the Giant since I saw The Princess Bride, and I thought that this was so interesting and sad. 
1562	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Well-researched and written with a sophisticated simplicity, Box Brown's comics autobiography of one of pro wrestling's greatest figures is a fun, engaging, and affecting read. 
1563	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Like the man at the center of this graphic novel, Box Brown's retelling of André Roussimoff's life story hides a lot of pain and thoughtfulness beneath a simple but stylish exterior.  
1564	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A great, worts and all graphic biography of Andre the Giant. The Princess Bride section is particularly fun but it is also a strangely illuminating look into the lives of professional wrestling.
1565	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"An enjoyable read. The two highlights for me were The Anatomy of a Wrestling Match"" and Andre vs. Hulk Hogan in Wrestlemania III. "
1566	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	An interesting look at the life of an amazing man.
1567	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A lovely biography of the big man.
1568	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Amazing and tragic.
1569	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was a great read. 
1570	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A great story about a legendary person. It covers most of his life focussing mostly on his wrestling career. A must read for all of his fans.
1571	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A quick read, simply illustrated, that captured Andre as both the champion entertainer and long-suffering man.
1572	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I can't believe how much I LOVED this book. It was simply drawn, but with great detail, even down to David Letterman's tooth gap! Read it if you can, especially if you are a child of the 80's.
1573	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A touching and well researched biography of this beloved wrestler.
1574	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"The good, the bad, and the legend from the larger-than-life story of Andre ""the Giant"" Roussimoff. RIP, Boss."
1575	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Andre the Giant is certainly one of the most interesting people to ever be a part of the WWE, and for most people his story doesn't go further than ""he was big, he wrestled, and he was in The Princess Bride."" I myself knew very little about his life, so I thought it would be interesting to read about who he really was. This book ended up showing me a unique perspective not only about Andre's life, but also about professional wrestling, life as a busy celebrity, and about living with a disability. I enjoyed reading this book, and even though this isn't the best memoir or graphic novel I've ever read, I still did have fun reading this and I got something out of it in the end.  The story of Andre's life was more fascinating than I realized, and I liked how thorough the book was with telling that story. It showed all the important parts of his life, but it also showed the in-between moments that ended up shaping who he was, and it also talked about the history of professional wrestling, which was interesting, but I will admit, I am not that knowledgeable. I've only ever seen one professional wrestling show, but I still know enough about it to be surprised by how different it was at the time. I always knew that it was more of a show than anything, but I never realized that at one point everyone thought it was legitimate and that the athletes were forbidden from spoiling the fun. I think the fact that it isn't ""real"" only adds to the fun of it, and I've seen some great matches that play it up and add funny plots and character arcs that make it much more interesting than it would have been if you had been watching two random people wrestling.  As much as I loved the story, the pacing was just not right. There didn't seem to be real transitions between most scenes, and the whole book just felt like a bunch of short, random stories that were shoved together awkwardly. There's no seamless transition between scenes, and the addition of it would have made the book a lot stronger. Looking at the scenes itself, I did also think that the scenes read off incredibly unnatural and jarring. The dialogue didn't seem smooth, people's actions weren't explained very well, and stuff just happened without and rhyme or reason. Any scenes that heavily focused on dialogue were just incredibly weird, and it really hindered my experience. It made it hard to read and to understand what was going on in the book, and I wanted to be able to properly enjoy it. I mean, the story was interesting, but it was only that way when I could actually understand what was going on. In reality, the whole book felt like: ""things happen, people wrestle, and Andre gets older."" It was hard to see the straight line of the story, and the book ended up reading as a bunch of jumbled up short events rather than a proper telling of Andre's life.  All in all, this was an ok book. It was interesting to read it, but I'll probably never pick it up again. There are better graphic novels out there to spend time reading, but I still think that it's worth giving a shot if you're interested in it. I will say, reading this book has made me interested in learning even more about Andre's life. I know that there is a documentary about him that came out relatively recently, so now I'll have to check that out. As I've said before, this was an interesting and intriguing read, I learned quite a few new things about professional wrestling from this, and I also enjoyed the artwork in this book. I can tell that Brown was really into his work, and I'm happy that he was able to combine his work and a topic that he loved in his youth, and I thought that he did a good job with his book. It's not my personal favorite, but I can clearly see that time, energy, and passion was put into this book. "
1576	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"[HS Hi-Low Book]  Andre the Giant: Life and Legend (2014) is a biographical graphic novel written and illustrated by Box Brown. The book mainly covers Andre's life during his wrestling career with slight information on who he was before he started wrestling. The story starts with an introduction by Hulk Hogan about the legend surrounding Andre and transitions into the biographical exposition by introducing the audience to Andre as a 12 year old in France.  Andre was always bigger than everyone his age and eventually his acromegaly pushed him to grow physically bigger than everybody. His physical size and strength give Andre an advantage when it comes to sports (mainly as a goalie) and working as a laborer (mainly a pusher/mover of large items). One night, Andre meets a woman and the two get intimate; the next day, the woman admits to Andre that she thought he was a fighter. From this encounter, she reveals that she works for the Eylsee Montmarte matches and helps introduce Andre to the world of professional wrestling.  The remaining chapters of the book are a mixture of tales from Andre's professional and personal life. Professionally, Andre becomes a spectacle for sports entertainment, constantly touring and traveling places to put on a show. A majority of Andre's professional career is spent inside the wrestling ring among other professional wrestlers, but Andre's stature allows him to crossover and ""fight"" a professor boxer as well as play acting roles in major Hollywood movies. Personally, Andre struggles with his growing gigantism - he rarely goes to the doctors, he is unable to roam and use the bathroom in airplanes when traveling, he consumes massive amounts of alcohol daily, and he fathers a child but rarely sees or participates in her life. These two aspects of his life show a huge contrast as Andre is an admired living legend in the world of wrestling but barely an upstanding citizen in his own life. In a sense, this part of the book helps document the complexities and the rise and fall of Andre.  The graphic novel illustrations are drawn in black and white and is done to help create a nostalgic effect, much similar to black and white photography. Page space is used rather creatively as panels and gutter space come in many sizes and colors, and 1-2 page spreads are used to help show Andre's physical prowess. While the illustrations represent real people, the depth of realism in the drawings is almost non-existent; Box Brown embraces a more cartoony style of animation in his characters and they are all explicitly labeled either in captions or character dialogue. Ultimately, the visuals play a huge role for the story as it gives the book a great and easy flow.  About 95% of the book's vocabulary is simple and easy to read, however, pronunciation of names and some French terms may take the reader some time to read/get through, but those times don't really hinder or impede getting through the narrative. I thought the book was super easy and fun to read; the book's story is approximately 222 pages but it felt like a lot less. I believe this is due to my interest in Andre's life (I had just watched the HBO documentary on Andre about 2 days prior to finding this book in my local library) and the entertaining manner in which his life's story is told in this graphic novel (several references to women, alcohol and physical intimidation all help keep the story entertaining). For those reasons, I would recommend this book to high school students (9-11) that are interested in Andre the Giant and/or the history of professional wrestling."
1577	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	As a kid, I was riveted to the TV whenever professional wrestling (especially WWF) came on. As such, I was always very aware of the presence of Andre the Giant. I’m glad to see that such a larger-than-life figure (both literally and figuratively!) gets the graphic novel bio treatment here by Box Brown.  This graphic novel covers most of the important events in the life of Andre, including his exploits inside the ring, his foibles outside of it, and even his personal life away from wrestling and his time spent filming “The Princess Bride”. The tone of the book seems about right, which I think is maybe the hallmark of the entire experience. While on one hand Andre was an admired and respected figure (and has now graduated to all-time legend status posthumously), he was also often a lonely, uncomfortable figure, as his size prompted stares wherever he went and certain facilities (bathrooms, plane seats, etc.) made life very uncomfortable. Brown does a great job of capturing all of those emotions in this book.  About the only reason I can’t give this book the full five stars is because I was puzzled by some of the cruder entries, such as some R-rated language on occasion, a very-much-implied sexual encounter, and even open talk of oral sex. I’m not a prude when it comes to this type of material, and I’m sure that those things likely happened in the life of Andre (probably to a far greater extent than we will ever even know), but this book didn’t seem to be the place to go into that side of things. Not when the other 98% of the text is geared towards consumption by all audiences. As it shakes out, however, those rare instances of language/sex stick out like a sore thumb (i.e. they don’t fit in with the rest of the book’s tone). On a separate note, those instances also make it difficult to whole-heartedly recommend this book to some school libraries, where it could have surely thrived otherwise.  Overall, though, I enjoyed reading “Andre the Giant: Life & Legend”, as it is a great tribute to one of professional wrestling’s (and sports in general’s) most legendary figures. Box Brown covers the highs of being a giant, but also doesn’t shy away from the lows (perhaps getting even too candid in this regard), making this a well-balanced look at the life of pro wrestling’s most unique figure.
1578	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was sent a free copy by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.  Been meaning to read this for a while, as I like graphic nonfiction and have another book by the author. The ratings I give to graphic novels and comics are always heavily reliant on how much I like the art and how well the medium is used, and while Brown's art does what it needs to do and his panels break things up the way they should, I'm someone who only gives five-star ratings to things I LOVED, and am stingy with them. So a perfectly respectable four stars it gets.  I was impressed by how well-researched the book is; footnotes and bibliographies are less common in graphic nonfiction than they should be, and Brown explains his methodology in the foreword. You definitely want to read that foreword before starting the book proper; he's careful to point out the blurring of fact and storytelling in the wrestling profession, and also makes clear that some events or anecdotes are disputed or told differently from multiple viewpoints, and he's balanced his obvious love for wrestling and Andre himself with a steady-handed journalistic skepticism. I respected that and to me, it's the main selling point of the book; Brown's love for the subject matter and commitment to objectivity (as objective as one can ever be in a biography) make an artful yin-and-yang here. I also, as other commenters have mentioned, appreciated Brown's choice not to write toward an audience of strictly wrestling fans, and to explain wrestling terms, concepts, and industry strategies and give breakdowns and popular analyses of particular fights and incidents. He's also frank about some of Andre's failings, and being fair about a subject who is still so beloved by his peers and the public can be a challenge, so I applaud not only the attempt but the execution of that.  Basically, I'd give this a 4.5 if I could--more like a solid 4.8 if I'm being that precise--because the only things I could have suggested improving on MIGHT be to make the book longer (although with a subject who died young, this might be difficult) and that Brown's artwork is sufficient for what it needs to do, it just doesn't razzle-dazzle me. A good pick for fans, non-fans looking to be introduced to wrestling or to Andre, and possibly also students or aspiring artists who want to be introduced to how the format can be used.
1579	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Andre the Giant: Life and Legend by Box Brown is one of the best books I have ever read. The way that it makes me feel like I am living the story is one of its best attributes. The artwork in the story is also something I have never seen before. The black and white artwork is soft and playful but does well when it has to get across the rough dangerous lifestyle that Andre had to go through. One of its best characteristics is when it shows what pain he dealt with at the end of his life when his bones were more fragile to his larger body. The way the author and illustrator showed how he was affected by his body when he came to the country was very effective and made me feel bad for him. After reading this book I feel that it captures all aspects of his life with moving, his family, dealing with other wrestlers, his height, and his health.  At the start of this book, I feel that having Hulk Hogan tell a personal story about him and Andre is an easy start and it isn’t just throwing the reader right into the story. Then, the way the author switched over to France where Andre lived with his family at the time, shows he is was experiencing trouble with his height and not just in the U.S. After it shows his old wrestling days it portrays that he has been a wrestling for a long time and has loved to do it his whole life. This way the author organized the book made it feel more like a story than a biography.  After a while when he goes to the USA and starts boxing, I like how it shows small fights but then the writer shows one of his big fights in Madison Square Garden. During this fight, I like how the author illustrates it by just telling his movements and thoughts throughout the fight and more of the fake side of wrestling. On page 74 when it says ""Andre crushes their hands! (not really)"" it is a lot different than how the book was usually being told and showed that the book has variety in its wording.  In conclusion, I really like this book for its art style, the way it tells about his family, the way it describes the fights he was in, and how the story was told. Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is a good and soft read, and it will tell the reader that sometimes being short is better than being tall. After reading this book I have learned a lot about Andre the Giant. I have learned that he is one of the most interesting people in the world and that he is one of the nicest when he wants to be."
1580	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	continuing my series of Box Brown historical graphic novels, I read the Andre the Giant graphic novel. I've always been a big fan of Andre drying of course from the Princess Bride movie, but awesome in general, the way that his kindness comes through despite his unbelievable size. The book had all the usual stories about Andre the Giant that I'd heard from the The Autobiography written by the star of The Princess Bride, but it also had more it had more details about his life and reminded me of the recent popular Andre the Giant documentary which I also saw dogs Andre the Giant lived a hard life he had to drink a case of beer to get drunk. He had to drink entire pints of alcohol to deadened his gigantic form, which was constantly growing and constantly stressing him out and causing him pain. I enjoyed the ties in with professional wrestling, the idea of fooling the crowd keeping the secret and how to handle a character as large as Andre only Vince McMahon. I believe Sr. had the idea to take them on tour, make sure that he doesn't get stuck in one town so it's a big deal when the giant comes to your town, making Andre into an even bigger star than he was before. I was impressed to see Andre handing the title over to Hulk Hogan and allowing Hulk Hogan to win the match and putting him over and really giving a lot of the power that Andre had and then sharing it with Hulk Hogan who was pretty much the wrestling champion of my youth. A great book these Box Brown Books have been a joy to read both history and comic book really quick flipped right through it. That'd be the only thing is that you don't get a lot of bang for your buck. But maybe for young people that don't want to read. Get them to read one of these and they get a great history, as well as a comic book.  Transcribed by https://otter.ai
1581	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Box Brown's graphic novel biography of Andre the Giant is a great overview of the wrestler's short life and partial introduction to the ""business"" (i.e. the world of professional wrestling). Brown's simple, clear illustrations provide a story of a complicated individual, the ""eighth wonder of the world"", a giant in and out of the squared circle.  This isn't a comprehensive biography; you won't find detailed chronicles of multiple matches like you normally find in other wrestlers' biographies. There's not much coverage of his childhood or upbringing, either. Brown focuses on how Andre's acromegaly directly influenced his life. We see how much pain it caused him, both physically and mentally. We also see the unfortunate side effects such as Andre's penchant for drinking (there's a lot of drinking).  Brown draws on excellent source material. The most telling are some interviews with Hulk Hogan, but the truly revealing ones are with Andre himself. Brown offers his own analysis of Andre's commentary on his life. When Andre tells Letterman he can't fit in the Japanese bathrooms, the audience laughs it up while Andre is being sincere. Andre loved his ranch so much because no one was around to stare at him. It can be difficult to relate to a celebrity of any kind, but a true wonder of nature such as Andre is even more difficult to fathom.  As Brown states multiple times, it's hard to discern how truthful any wrestler's story is, particularly about someone as legendary as Andre the Giant. But as this book's title suggests, ""legend"" is part of Andre's story. He was a larger than life human who was truly larger than life. Box Brown manages to capture that notion easily and simply and with an abundance of pathos."
1582	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This graphic novel tells the life story of Andre Roussimoff, better known as the professional wrestler Andre the Giant. He grew up in France and was afflicted with acromegaly, with his body continually growing even as an adult. He was a big child and just became bigger and bigger. He had some odd jobs before he found professional wrestling. In that career, his amazing and intimidating size was a benefit. He traveled around the world, wrestling in Japan and Europe before heading to North America. He became a celebrity in 1970s and 1980s professional wrestling. He had a friendly, outgoing off-stage demeanor that endeared him to many. He also drank a lot (partly to deaden the pain of his condition) and would occasionally mouth off to people. He was quick with an apology later. His fame was astronomical and he earned enough not to have financial worries. He was also free enough to do what he wanted, including his charming turn in The Princess Bride.  Author and artist Box Brown is a wrestling fan and put in a lot of research into this book. Brown has plenty of insights into wrestling culture (how it is fake but back in the day no one said so because it was a form of entertainment) from those times. He relates the legendary stories (Andre turning over a car with two people in it, for example) in a charming narrative that gets the reader to see more of Andre's life than his public person. The book is not too in-depth but is enjoyable and gives fans a better understanding of what Andre went through.  Recommended.
1583	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Setting → Molien, France (1958) Writing → single story timeline (main character: Andre Roussimouff)  Cons: a) illustrations: cartoon (black & white) b) characters (not connecting)  A moderately sized graphic novel about Andre Roussimouff (Andre the Giant). He was born and raised on a farm in Molien, France. He developed normally until his teens when he began growing at an unexpected rate. Soon, he was persuaded to appear worldwide as a “one-night star attraction”. By 1969, his first wrestling name was Jean Ferre. It’d be years before it’d be changed to Andre the Giant. His wrestling career meant everything to him and he excelled at it under the management of the future WWE founder. Andre led a challenging life filled with many medical issues caused by his original health condition (acromegaly) that would shorten his lifespan, create extreme pain, and generate the necessity of multiple surgeries. However, he was able to live his life on his terms doing the job he loved most.  The illustrations were drawn in a cartoon style with black and white coloration. It was very basic artwork with people drawn using block-style facial features and bodies. I prefer a different kind of art but it was okay. Often it reads like facts being strung together making the writing seem very impersonal and dry. Overall, it was a quick and informative read about a man considered to be the “eighth wonder of the world”.
1584	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I am not a huge fan of graphic novels, but I tried to enjoy this book as it was required for an english class and I wanted to open my mind. The writing is good- I enjoy the ability Brown had to paint a scene, and how he combined good storytelling with a decent job of explaining certain things to the reader. Any reader will learn something not only about Andre, but professional wrestling itself. However, I only give the book 3 starts because I believe it failed at its main goal. The whole point of the book was to paint Andre as a good human- flawed and large, but a good man nonetheless. The problem is that, reading everything, my opinion of Andre is not positive. I sympathize with him and what he had to go through, but I have little admiration for him as a person. He seemed to spend most of his waking hours drunk. While I understand that alcohol helped him cope with his chronic pain, being drunk doesn't give you an excuse to be an asshole. He started fights, called people offensive words, said awful things to people, and kept drinking in a bar after he was asked to leave. He was using his height to take advantage of someone else and that wasn't okay. I appreciate the kind and good parts of his character, but the book did not make me like him anymore than I did before and I personally would not recommend it to anyone.
1585	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Box Brown's biographical take of Andre the Giant is whimsical and fun, but also comprised of melancholy and pain.  This book is a great introduction to Andre the Giant, who was considered one of the greats in wrestling. I'm not a huge wrestling guy, but even if you aren't, I'm sure you have heard of the man and his stature. And the thing of this book is, while it is great for introductions, it never really gets passed the surface level impressions of Andre. The tales told about him, and illustrated by Brown, are first hand accounts of people that knew him. Tall tales (no pun intended) that obviously are shared from the viewpoint of that person, and not from Andre himself. This, in my opinion, leaves much to be desired as far as introspection.  The art is a clean, cartoony style that is easy on the eyes. In fact, there are some darker aspects to Andre's life that are actually softened by Brown's art. If drawn by someone with more detail and sketchiness, the stories of drinking, of not meeting his kid, of him being a general dick would be much less whimsical, and much more cynical.  This is a great way to find out about the man if you know nothing other than ""he was this giant dude who wrestled"". And even though we don't get too far into his psyche, this brief outline of his life serves as a fun read for fans of comics or wrestling."
1586	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Box Brown recounts a mix of anecdotes of Andre the Giant's life.  To fully appreciate this book you really need to be a fan of wrestling or at least the titular giant himself. Brown employs his simple, yet attractive style to a rough chronology of Andre's life. With a biopic/documentary style the narrative follows him from his early day's in France to his heyday in the US and Japan. Typically well researched by Brown the book covers personal details and interactions as well as featuring high points of Andre's wrestling career and personal life, as well as referencing his medical condition (acromegaly) that was both the reason for his unusual size and health issues that dogged his life. One of the things he is most famous for (outside wrestling) is the film The Princess Bride so it seems odd that only a couple of pages are devoted to it here, perhaps that is due to Brown being a self confessed pro-wrestling fanatic.  While this is certainly an entertaining read it suffers a little from lacking any coherent narrative thread; moving from story to story without having any particular link or message. This is in part due to mainly only having second hand accounts and written well after Andre's death. With a narration or more solid link between scenes this could have been a stronger tale.
1587	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Perhaps it has to do with the fact that I read this right after ""Closer to Heaven"", and ""Life and Legend"" really suffers by comparison, but I did not enjoy this comic.  I appreciate and respect Brown's research, and maybe his work would have been better served as a book. The common element between comic books and pro-wrestling is that they both serve a narrative - they tell a compelling story. This comic book is basically a reporting of facts (and not necessarily the most compelling ones) accompanied by drawings. It has no heart, and one of the things most everyone agrees on about Andre the Giant, was that he was all heart - in his good moments, his bad moments and everything in between.  This comic does not convey the sense of legendry around both the evolution of pro-wrestling and Andre himself, and the art style does not really serve to drive home his monumental, gradually near-alien size.  The first few pages set up a different approach that is quickly abandoned, thereafter almost clinically reducing Andre the Giant to a suffering drunkard. Furthermore, it keeps emphasizing that the only morality of pro-wrestling was money. There is no question that it played an integral role, but you could say that about anything in the course of human history. The nuance, the untold story, is simply not there."
1588	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is a biographical graphic novel written and illustrated by Box Brown. It is a labor-of-love tribute, exquisitely rendered, to the larger-than-life wrestling giant in graphic novel form.  André René Roussimoff, best known as André the Giant, was a French professional wrestler and actor.  Brown tells André's life story using both narrative and recollections by André's contemporaries, blurring the line between what's real and what's just part of the show, mirroring the tradition of professional wrestling. Although he enjoyed worldwide fame, André's life was hardly glamorous: he was on the road for long stretches, boozing and fighting at local dives, suffered an array of health issues due to his immense size, and frequently felt isolated due to his enormity.  Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is written and constructed rather well. Brown's simple, blocky art keeps the story front and center, and the down-to-earth tone allows him to avoid demonizing or lionizing his subject.  All in all, Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is an enjoyable and well researched biographical graphic novel of one of the most notable wrestlers in history – André René Roussimoff as André the Giant.
1589	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was not overly enthused with the Dilbert-like illustrations or piecemeal progression of Andre the Giant’s story (imho), but I did appreciate the source noted at the end that provided some perspective on just how legendary his life was. While we all know professional wrestling is far more rooted in entertainment value than individual achievement, it didn’t take away from the athleticism or talent driven celebrity Andre the Giant brought to the ring. While his massive size separated him from most humans physically, it was apparent he felt self-conscious about his unique stature, a wholly natural reaction. And as a result, he spent much of his life self-medicating with alcohol and nicotine and wavering between being uncomfortable with fan adulation and having a soft spot for the lower rungs of society. He was largely an absentee father yet left everything to his daughter upon his death. As charming as he was (see: Princess Bride and many other accompanying stories), he could never quite fend off the fateful inevitability of a premature death. A VERY interesting character who, I feel, has a more in-depth story to be told than the graphic novel provided; so I plan to watch the documentary about him as well.
1590	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the giant was one of my favorite wrestlers in the 1980's. I used to watched WWF wresting probably ever week. And sometimes I would even watch it when it was on late at night if i did not fall asleep to early.  I liked that Andre the giant: life and legend was a quick read. I also liked the artwork. I would have thought it have been fun to be so big. One story in the book stuck out at me. It was when Andre the giant got out of bed and his ankle snapped. That would be so scary. I would freak out if that happened to me.  When I watched Andre the giant wrestle I never knew that Acromegally or that he might not live past forty. I did not know until years later that Andre the giant had died in 1993. I don't remember where I was when I head that he was dead. I think I heard that he had died in a cave in France.  i think Andre the giant was a fascinating person. In addition to Andre the giant: life and legend I have also watched a documentary about his life.. I can't remember the name of the documentary though.  Andre the giant: Life and legend was worth the time it took me to read it. Maybe I will read it again.  
1591	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	 I liked reading this book for various reasons. There's the nostalgia angle. After all, I grew up watching wrestling on television, which was part of the appeal of this book for me. Andre the giant was not just a big man in wrestling, but the biggest literally in fame and size when I was growing up, along with the Hulkster, and Randy Savage. Those names might be unfamiliar to present day wrestling fans but they were as big as The Rock and the Undertaker when I was growing up. They even had a cartoon show. No seriously. http://youtu.be/yBpVfXkcoCY This is a biography of Andre the giant, in graphic novel form, published by one of my favorite comic book companies, First Second. They have an awesome catalog and I highly recommend it. This was another reason I was attracted to the book. And the cover has a beautiful design, something that readers seldom notice, but artists and art lovers can appreciate. That it made a couple of different 'Best graphic novels of 2014' lists did not hurt my desire to read this book as well. So, I went into this book expecting great things, and that perhaps set it up to not be as awesome as I thought. I've never heard of Box Brown before this. He's a very capable artist with a very minimalist style. He is a competent draftsman and he's not trying to do anything fancy with the storytelling so there are no experimental layouts or risky panels or fancy montage or splash pages. This is one of the things I find so aggravating about this book. While it is drawn in a simple style, it lacks any zing. Good design is usually simple, like the cover of the book, Andre standing in a ring his name behind him cut out of the spotlight. But none of the panels in this book are half as interesting. They tell the story straight. Now there's nothing wrong with simply telling a story simply, but this is the story of Andre the Giant. This is the story of someone who is bigger than life and I simply don't see that reflected in the storytelling art or the actual story written inside. The story begins with Andre the Giant meeting a literary giant, told in a very simple matter of fact way, which is brilliant and would have been more effectual had the rest of the book been more over the top and grandiose. A book about a giant of a man, about a king of wrestling should have had a splash page or three. And there are various one panel pages in the book but I hesitate to call any of them splash, as nothing splashes out about the island of Japan when its a simple topographic design, or the pictures showing us Andre's body and how it is going to deteriorate. I think the artist squandered a lot of possibility with this book, and perhaps the publisher as well by not adding color to it, and making some of the pages a little more dynamic. That said, again the author Box Brown doesn't do anything extraordinary with the storytelling prosewise. He relates the story simply and succinctly with a series of end notes, which he deems necessary given the legendary nature of the man and wrestling in general. Mr. Brown wants to give credibility to his journalistic endeavour and I appreciate that. I don't feel they are necessary to the story, unlike say Terry Pratchett's hilarious footnotes and it takes you away from the story if you stop every time. But the truth is that this book is taken from accounts of the man, as Andre is no longer with us. The story is conveyed as a lot of short vignettes about the wrestler, which while they don't seem disjointed, after a while come to seem the same. One of my biggest peeves with the book was how quickly it went through Andre's involvement with The Princess Bride. It shows very little about what happened during the making of the films, which makes me wonder if Mr. Brown did not get any juicy details or really much out of Andre's co-stars. I found it lacking considering that to non-wrestling fans and movie fans that may have been their only exposure to Andre the giant. This was a bit of a big disappointment. Surely they had more than one or two stories to tell, and where there not other people to talk to than merely the actors? We'll never know, or perhaps I should look for a Making of The Princess Bride book. So, as you can see there are fundamental flaws in the book. But nothing is perfect and this book is not a complete failure. Perhaps Mr. Brown was trying to be poetic about the life of Andre the giant. Perhaps it was his intent to tell a very simple tale about a very complicated and very lonely man. I don't think the approach worked well, nor do I agree with it, but that is probably what the author was going for with the simple linework and the black and white art. Mr. Brown does not apologize or tries to paint Andre as any kind of saint or loveable gentle giant as the character he portrayed in the very famous Princess Bride. I greatly respect that. There are a couple of moments throughout the book were Andre is seen as less than perfect, showing us his only too human side. What comes through most clearly though is the difficulty the man had simply living in the world made for smaller people and the grace with which he coped with it and the shame with which he dealt with it sometimes too. In that regard, Mr. Brown gives us an honest portrayal, and the book even gives us a kind of peek behind the curtain of wrestling, what is now common knowledge but to me growing up seemed so real and dangerous and still appealing. Despite what I see as wasted potential, and a difference of opinion in the approach to the material the story was enjoyable, at times funny, sad, and only too human. I would not personally buy this book for my collection, but as always, reader's mileage may vary. I would recommend reading a library copy first and trying it out. It is a good story, and it has competent art, and at the very least you walk away with a little more knowledge of the only too human man known as Andre the giant.
1592	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	If you're looking for an in-depth piece on Andre and his life this is not the book for you.  What this is is a wonderfully illustrated series of vignettes, collated together in chronological order to show us both some specific events (some more well known than others) and the brand strokes of his life.  I'm not someone who knew that much about Andre (hence me wanting to read this) so I can't comment on any glaring omissions, but as a reader of this book, it does seem to gloss over the birth of his daughter a little bit. It's stated near the end that he only met her 4 times, so we know they didn't have a relationship; but as a reader we're shown him receiving the news by phone, which came as a bit of a surprise as there is nothing previously about him meeting the mother or their relationship (however short it was).  Maybe there is not much information out there about it? It's clearly a well-researched book. Or maybe it's just not that interesting? I don't know.  All I know is that I really enjoyed the book and feel I know more about Andre than I did before.
1593	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I was a fan of this form of entertainment in the 80s when Hulk Hogan was the face of the ""good guys"". Andre the Giant was there, but I didn't pay a whole lot of attention to anyone else. When I became a little bit older and watched The Princess Bride, Andre stood out more and I enjoyed the character he played. Eventually roles changed. Hogan became a bad guy, I lost a hero, and the industry lost a fan. I still have fond memories, but they are distant.  I have picked up this book before and really do appreciate the narrative given of Andre's life. I believe it is an important look into what made him the man he was and the challenges he faced. I think graphical form was the best medium as it provided a size reference that better serves the readers in understanding the variance between the wrestler and the world around him. My heart goes out to this guy.  The only thing that might discourage some readers is the profanity found within. I do understand that it occurred and those in the industry speak it fluently."
1594	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The author’s fandom really comes across. Wish he’d worked harder on feeling, flow, and craftsmanship.  It’s occasionally charming, and there are some really good-looking panels scattered around.  Ultimately clumsy/clunky as a book. It feels like a high school student’s project.  The authorial voice and storytelling mode keep shifting. Lots of telling rather than showing. Distracting mix of handwriting and typesetting. The content is almost entirely disconnected episodes (which I don’t mind; that can work) but too rigidly based on what Brown could find in books or videos.  I prefer biographies that involve more original research and/or have the confidence to connect the dots and really tell a story.  And it doesn’t really help that nearly every character comes across as repellent (including Andre). If a story is about bad people doing bad things to each other, it needs to be better told.
1595	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Very broad over view of Andre's life & career in drawn art form. Skips some of the best part of his life, but I have been & still am a huge fan of this Eighth Wonder of the World since I was 7 in 1979. A better book you should try is ""André the Giant : a legendary life"" by Michael Krugman ISBN: 9781416541127. It has only a 3.05 rating here on goodreads, but it gives more depth too his life & struggles as a Giant in a world of average normal height people. If you have seen & like the movie ""The Princess Bride"", actor Cary Elwes' book/memoir of the filming of the movie titled ""As You Wish: Inconceivable Tales from the Making of The Princess Bride"" has some wonderful tails of his 5-6 month filming that movie. Some may be ""tall"" tails(sorry, couldn't pas up the pun), but most are probably true. I have learned that many of the tails of André René Roussimoff are embellished. The worst are from Hulk Hogan. Don't believe a word he says about Andre. "
1596	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Meh. Weirdly episodic.  It seems like the author interviewed some folks, and just drew their stories. There was no flow, like he didn’t do enough research? Didn’t check his stories? I never really got the feel of who Andre the Giant was. OK, he was big. Even as a kid. Everyone stared at him, OK. And… um… he drank a lot? He seemed sort of like a jerk most of the time. The fact that he had a child seemed sort of rushed thorough; if you’re not paying attention, you’ll miss it till the end. He claimed to love his ranch in North Carolina, but we don’t see how he got it, or really him ever spending time there.  The graphic-ness of the book works pretty well. Andre is a little bit stylized, but that’s fine. I can’t decide if it’s good or bad that the proportions between him and others never quite seemed right. Except the hands---worked well with the hand-crushing and the handshakes. 
1597	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Giving it a 4 star rating for what is clearly a very well researched biographical comic (including sources, a bibliography, and a glossary). A word of warning-I can say confidently that I like Andre a little less than I did before I read it, while also feeling a general sense of sadness over his condition. This spoils a lot of the *magic* of watching him perform in the ring. If you like to see someone pull back the curtain on a wrestler's life and see everything (even the ugly parts you kind of wish you hadn't seen) this is for you. If you're a hopeless mark like me, I think you probably want to stick to watching his matches and living in a world where you didn't know Andre called Bad News Brown the N word on a bus once, and spent more on a night of drinks than on his daughter he only saw 4 times in her life. It's a really quick read, so it's worth your time if you wanna know more about the 8th wonder of the world. 
1598	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the Giant seems like a caricature to most. They might know him from the princess bride, and wrestling fans will certainly be familiar with his career. But this book shows who he was as a man, and what he went through.  The condition that made him so big also condemned him to an early death. He had to come to terms with the fact he wouldn't live much past forty. He was constantly being mocked, stared at, and challenged to fights. Through the approachable artwork, we get a sense of who he really was. Some of his less honorable choices, while still often awful, are made to be understandable. It also does a great job of expressing just how badly his body became broken down. Through the action breakdown sections of his wrestling and stuntwork, it shows just how frail his body really was, and how he concealed that in his performances.  This book is a quick, but very worthwhile read that sheds light on a figure the most know, but few understand.
1599	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Like so many, I only know Andre the Giant from The Princess Bride, but I vaguely remember learning that he was a professional wrestler. This biographical graphic novel gave insights into his life simply and effectively. I do wish there had been more depth to some of the stories, but as the author points out, it’s difficult to know what was true. A sadness seemed to permeate the pages, and I can’t imagine what it would have been like knowing you were going to age quickly and die young, and to have so many look at you and just see your size—those had to have been almost unbearable notions to handle. I learned quite a lot about professional wrestling while reading and found it fascinating. I especially liked the fights the author depicted and dissected. I am now even more intrigued about Andre’s life, and think this is a great starting point for anyone who is interested in his life and career. As a caution, there was some language and crude humor.
1601	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is about the life of Andre the Giant. He was a man that was larger than life, both physically and in the way he approached and lived life. He was a large man and would only grow larger due to his acromegaly condition. He was in constant pain, which led to him drinking so much. He was always in pain and was often seen as a freak wherever he went. He never really fit in, literally... because he was so large in stature.  I feel sad for him. While he was able to find a career that suit him, and place where he probably felt the most accepted, it didn't help with his physical condition. But it seemed he enjoyed it. At least he had his farm, which brought him some joy.  It's unfortunate that he didn't seem to care or want his daughter in his life. I just found reading this graphic novelization of his life to be quite sad.
1602	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I have been really intrigued to read this, and I was so disappointed. 1. It was told more as vignettes of his life. But each vignette was so abridged, so tiny, that I got to the end knowing no more than I already had about the man. Not enough info. 2. He opens the book by saying some people thought Andre was an a-hole, but it's because they didn't know his story....then he proceeds to spend the whole story painting him as an a-hole. And while I don't doubt he had his serious flaws, and he pissed plenty of people off, I've also heard some beautiful stories about him; but none of those were included. I think a good biography should show both sides. 3. I learned more about wrestling than Andre himself. (Although, granted, those parts were really interesting.) All in all, I was bummed. I'll be looking for another biography on the man.
1603	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"This was a great ""snow day"" book. I'm not a big wrestling fan anymore, but I LOVED IT when I was 5-8 and thought it was real. There were many-a-day where I'd throw my brother off a couch. (I also was able to recreate a being body slammed in a ring in between lucha libre matches during Taco Fest in Lakeview a couple of years ago, so I suppose I haven't totally grown out of that phase.) Anyway, I guess that is just to explain what drew me to this book in the first place.  It was a very enjoyable read. The artwork was phenomenal, and it retold some stories I knew and some stories I didn't know in quick, interesting ways. This book probably isn't for everyone, but anyone who is a little interested in professional wrestling or showbiz in general could appreciate this quick read, I would think."
1604	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This book tells the story of Andre the Giant, a wrestler who was incredibly tall and incredibly huge. It was interesting to hear about his life, because he is an interesting person, but this story was not that great (even though I typically enjoy graphic novels).  The book seemed like just a lot of scenes stitched together instead of a cohesive story. The scenes were interesting, but that doesn't matter because when I'm looking to read a graphic novel, I want it to be a story that I can get into. This didn't do that for me. Also, it was kind of a depressing book. Andre the Giant was an alcoholic, he never really found love, and he had to retire young because of his body. I know that the author can't change his life to make it more happy, but I feel like he could at least focus on some of the happy aspects of his life. Lastly, I felt like through reading the book I was just watching Andre, instead of getting inside his head and seeing his emotions. I rate this book 2 stars though, because at least it was well drawn.
1605	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Really fast read with minimal dialog. I couldn't put it down. Nicely biographical and stitched together stories from different sources into a reasonably coherent life. There were some where the source material was a little sparse and it seemed like a few panels were just dropped in because they had an additional story even if it broke up the narrative flow. Not a personal fan of the comic strip art style. It wasn't bad just not my taste and I would have preferred colored are but black and white was fine.  I'd nitpick the details a bit more but it's clear from how fast I read it that I wasn't exactly struggling through it. It kept me wanting to read the next page but ultimately unsatisfied at the end of the entire book. All in all, worth checking out especially if you're an old school wrestling fan.
1606	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I bought this for my classroom, because I can never have enough graphic novels. This was recommended by another English/Reading teacher in a different district. As I skimmed it, I saw some swear words that made me wonder about the content, so I decided I would read it first. Graphic novels can be a quick read, and so yes, I got it done in a day. I liked the biographic information about this interesting person. I noticed the subtle message of how hard it was to be him even though he was famous and rich. I'm not a huge fan of the profanity and mentions of oral sex. I really am debating whether not to put this on my shelf for high schoolers. I definitely won't let my middle schoolers read it. I think this would have been an accurate, publishable book if those parts had been changed a bit. I liked the story, and I think my students will/would like it. 
1607	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I wanted to read this book because I have always found Andre interesting and wanted to know more about him – I assumed there was more to him that the Princess Bride.  While I did learn more about him, I did not find the presentation interesting. It seemed that every little thing that happened in his life was interesting and given an equal amount of attention as the major events in his life which I wish were more in depth. Furthermore, I could find about as much information by skimming his wikipedia page.  This could have been made up for by the artwork of the graphic novel but instead the drawings were ultra-simple and, though they were still clean and nice, they were not creatively stimulating in any way.  Regardless, this book was sufficiently informative for someone wanting to know more about Andre and very revealing about his personality when he is not Fezzik.
1609	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is a graphic novel about Andre the Giant, one of the biggest wrestlers to ever enter the ring in pro wrestling entertainment. The story begins in his younger days and goes through the ups and downs of his pro wrestling career, both inside the ring and behind the scenes. If you watched wrestling during the 1980s, you’ll recognize a lot of characters featured in this story, including Hulk Hogan and Vince McMahon.  I like Brown’s visual style and the way he tells this story. Early on as a wrestler, Andre is compared to a Paul Bunyan-like figure, and Brown at times treats him with respect and wonder, but also as a human being. You can tell that Brown has reverence for the subject matter and aims to tell a truthful story. The book is well-sourced, with an explanation of references and works cited at the end.
1610	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It was an alright book. It is about andre the giant and how his life was different from being so big and tall. When he would go to school he was too big to ride the bus, so he had to ride in the back of a pickup truck. He was huge and he wasn't going to just waste his talent. He started wrestling in a little stage and he was incredibly good. He got offered to get into WWE and he was the biggest against all of his opponents. Since he was so big he wasn't going to be able to live an average life. His body was 3 times more consuming than an average person. So he is living his best life possible hanging out with girls and making tons of money. Eventually he is getting out of shape because he is so big. Read the rest to find out what happened!
1611	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Clever way to present Andre’s life to readers. I’m a fan of Andre’s via his role in The Princess Bride; I didn’t expect to enjoy the wrestling aspects as much as I did (and I also immensely appreciate the source notes, glossary, and bibliography in addition to the creator’s introduction). While I might have preferred a more traditional prose biography in some ways—I am impressed by the creativity, thoroughness in detail and care, pure talent, and such an unmistakable effort shown by Box Brown. This story humanizes an otherwise larger than life character so well, I just wish there was more story to consume.
1612	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This book is dope.  It's really well written. Most of the time that people talk about Andre they trot out the same handful of stories but I feel like Box Brown went out of his way to find lesser told stories. This book is mostly composed of deep cuts that were new to me! And not only were the stories fresh, they were also well balanced between humor and tragedy - which is really important when you're talking about Andre, a very funny guy who ultimately led a tragic life.  And this is also really well illustrated. Andre the Giant was a larger than life character and Brown's artwork gives him the size and scope and sheer presence that he should have.  I don't know what else to say - this is just dope.
1613	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Hmm, kind of disappointing.  For all that Andre is described as “the nicest guy” and is shown to have to put up with a lot of shit he sure comes across as a jerk for most of the book. The story is also more focused on simply recounting events from his life than looking at Andre as a person or what others thought of him which doesn’t help the previous point. I’m not saying we shouldn’t see his faults but I came away from this feeling I didn’t actually know who he was and wasn’t that the point?  It also moved at what I thought was too fast a pace. But it was interesting, the breakdowns of specific wrestling matches was really cool, and I enjoyed the scenes from Andre’s childhood and early career.
1615	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I love Box Brown's storytelling style. I picked this one up without knowing any details about it based on how much I enjoyed his history of Tetris.  I was drawn into this one quickly and was surprised to be given so many insights into a person I knew nothing about. I love learning about what goes on behind the scenes in entertainment subindustries.  What a surprisingly poignant portrait of a physical outlier who was incredibly lucky, unlucky, and lonely. It also helped me understand the world of professional wrestling and Hulk Hogan's fame.  I'm intrigued to learn more about Chuck Wepner now, too, and plan to watch the recent film (Chuck) about his life starring Liev Schreiber.
1617	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	As someone who grew up watching pro wrestling with my dad and an avid fan of The Princess Bride, I've had a sort of fondness for Andre the Giant for a while. Box Brown's graphic novel about his life paints a realistic and heartbreaking picture of the literally larger than life figure. Andre literally didn't fit into many places because of his large size. Brown portrays him as a mostly affable person, who drinks a staggering amount and seems to have a mixed relationship with his fame. While this is told chronologically, it's essentially like a series of vignettes tied together to tell a story. All in all, a pretty interesting read. 
1618	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the Giant has always been an intriguing figure to the media. From his appearance in The Princess Bride, to his well renounced wrestling career, Andre has made headlines. His life was a particularly interesting and sad one, reaching 7’4 and nearly 700 pounds, the Giant aged rapidly, experiencing many physical difficulties in his life. He drank excessively which often led to him being unfavored by other wrestling professionals. I found his wrestling career interesting and I enjoyed the style in which it was told. The comic style was an interesting way to discuss his life and I found it rather cute. 
1619	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Recently I had watched a documentary on Andre the Giant and found his story quite sad. Andre the Giant: Life and Legend made me feel the same emotions I felt when I watched the documentary. Yes, both talked about Andre's career, but they also went into his life, his desires, and his struggles. I did not know that Andre had a kid. I feel bad that he was not able to spend time with his family and that his life was so short. Learning about Andre's affliction is also deeply moving. His body kept growing, but his organs and muscles could not keep up. It is so sad. Andre the Giant: Life and Legend does a great job of celebrating Andre's life while maintaining respect.
1620	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A biography in graphic novel form, Box Brown presents an interesting portrayal of a man who became famous the world over because of his unique size and charisma. I was surprised and delighted to learn how agile Andre was (for a big man) in the wrestling ring as a youth. Like many, I remember how lumbering he was when he was body slammed by Hulk Hogan at Wrestlemania 3, and as the giant Fezzik in The Princess Bride. Both moments were very late in his career as his body was falling apart. The tales of consumption are also incredible; the amount of food he could eat and alcohol he could drink daily stagger the mind. I'd recommend this to anyone wanting a quick read on an wrestling icon.
1621	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	An intriguing look into the life of a most interesting person. Sparse in narrative style and artistic idiom, this book provides little slices of life rather than deep penetrating explorations of Andre's life. Snapshots serve as scenes, each carefully selected to reveal some part of the larger story. Naturally, this left me wanting more, but the broad strokes are well defined.  The art is solid -- not too busy, not too minimal. A quick read, with images that are worth spending time with, but not luxuriating.  Recommended.
1622	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I love Andre the Giant and it was fun and interesting learning more about him! Although I was a bit appalled to see how he, at the height of his career as a wrestler, let the fame go to his head and he was a bit of a shitty person sometimes. Lol. But he was and will forever be known as the gentlest of giants, so obviously he was an incredible person. This book was mostly about his wrestling career and health issues but with some more minor life details thrown in. And there is a small section where The Princess Bride is mentioned!
1623	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Reminiscent of the recent HBO documentary on Andre the Giant, this work of graphic nonfiction is an honest and interesting look at one of the biggest (literally) and most interesting figures in professional wrestling history. That said, there is much more to this story than simply the world of sports entertainment. Readers will get a window into Andre's day-to-day life experiences and how, sometimes, being larger than life isn't all it's cracked up to be. Box Brown does a great job of being fair and honest about Andre without mythologizing too much.
1624	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This graphic novel presents highlights from the life of the legendary pro wrestler. Simple, uncluttered panels rendered in a bold, blocky style present scenes — some poignant, some funny, some crude — that reveal the simple man inside the literally larger-than-life showman. Readers with knowledge of professional wrestling or Andre’s career will easily fill in the gaps in the somewhat disjointed narrative, but even wrestling newbies (like me) will find the narrative accessible (even educational) thanks to Brown’s in-text explanations and helpful glossary in the back matter.
1625	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I know Andre as a hero. I grew up in the 90s watching wrestlemania and WCW vs NWO. I watched my older brother's taped matches on VHS featuring Andre. I know him as a pop culture icon. I've seen The Princess Bride more times than I can count and had stickers of his face plastered to anything I owned thanks to Shepherd Fairy. I knew he was funny and gregarious but I never thought about him as having a disability and what it took for him to live his life. Reading about his real life, especially is this compelling graphic novel format, was a real treat.
1626	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was quite an interesting peek into the quite literal larger than life man, 'Andre the Giant'. I've only known about him through the Princess Bride film and also have 0 knowledge when it comes to wrestling. I appreciate that this book doesn't shy away from the less pleasant aspects of his life, as well as showing how sad his life also was despite the highs of fame he had. Anyway, it was a really interesting read and Brown did a really good job of pacing the story while making it interesting to non-wrestling fans too.  https://hercommonplaceblog.wordpress....
1627	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	3 3/4 star rating. Graphic novel telling a brief fly by overview of Andre the Giant. I knew a little bit about him from a book about the making of the princess bride. So I knew he was a heavy drinker and well known for his wrestling game. I liked hearing about his devotion to the sport and how he was really just good at it. He had major flaws for sure and he also had a hard life as well. I wanted maybe a little more depth in some areas... went so fast . I definitely liked the explaining of wrestling stuff.
1628	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Remember how I was trumpeting the virtues of Tetris by Box Brown? Well, this is the graphic novel he wrote a couple years before that one and I honestly found it a lot less developed. Less story, less detail, less intrigue, less closure. When you’re tracing the history of very large man born in rural France in 1946 there’s probably a lot of missing pieces. I was really into wrestling as a kid so this was a nice way to color in some lines. But while I’d recommend it for wrestling fans, it doesn’t quite make a crossover hit. 
1629	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Mr. Brown has additional stories beyond what I'd already heard elsewhere, and of course someone so unusually large makes for an excellent graphic subject as sometimes it's hard to explain just how large he truly was. Mr. Brown's book really gets into wrestling and explains a lot of that particular backstory which is fascinating--how much is fake and how much is real, and what is predetermined, and how the most important part is for the audience to get a good show.
1630	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	An interesting story on someone I knew little about. Box Brown has a knack for the medium and his artwork works well for this. He definitely did his research on Andre and does a good job of making him a sympathetic figure. While what is here is interesting, I feel it was a bit too focused on just his career. I would’ve liked to have seen more about some of his personal life. Otherwise, this is an enjoyable and informative quick read. 
1631	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I loved this graphic novel! Kept me hooked and I read it straight through in a single night. A tragically powerful true story about one of the most famous wrestlers in history. It shines light on some of the problems with professional wrestling, but in a humorous and larger-than-life manner. I haven’t liked a lot of the graphic novels I’ve read in the past, but this one was the exception to that rule. Definitely deserving of the award.
1632	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Coming into this book, I had minimal knowledge of the wrestling world and only knew of Andre through The Princess Bride. It was pretty cool to learn about the wrestling side of Andre's life. Unfortunately, that's about all the book had to offer. If I had more interest in either professional wrestling or Andre himself I might have enjoyed this book a bit more but for me, it was just an underdeveloped story of a spectacle of a man who had a rough life.
1633	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I did not know much about Andre the Giant, since I was not into wrestling at all when I was a kid. This was an interesting and easy-to-read introduction to his life. It's a bit episodic, since there are not a lot of details available about Andre's life. But Brown explains at the beginning and then the end about how he researched the book, and explains that some of his book is based on that research, and some of it is basically his conjecture about how things went. 
1634	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A graphic novel that examines both the positive and negative aspects of Andre the Giant's personality, character, career, and life in general.  I enjoyed the book overall, but I felt that the storytelling was pretty fragmented and even random at times. The book is based on stories from friends and eyewitnesses of Andre, so they're not very well connected with each other. The ending also seemed abrupt.
1635	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Quick read - short biography featuring significant anecdotes - in graphic novel form of the most famous wrestler pre-Hulkamania, that being Andre the Giant. I do enjoy this style of prose, and the author nicely compiled and analyzed many stories that are spread across various interviews, books and documentaries. However I think we all owe it to ourselves to pick up the most complete biography of Andre, 2020’s “The Eighth Wonder Of The World.”
1636	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	While I was a fan of WWF, I came into it later with Brett the Hitman Heart, Undertaker, Yokozuna, Hunter Hearst Houndsley (before he was Triple-H), etc., so Andre the Giant and Hulk Hogan are familiar but not favorites. Unfortunately this graphic novel was super simplistic and repetitive in depicting Andre's life, and the drawing style was rather clunky for the few wrestling scenes that actually appear. 
1638	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"One of the great icons of my youth. Andre suffered from the very condition which made him a giant. Andre wasn't always the ""baby face"" in this mostly sympathetic narrative, but the book coveys some of the isolation and pain this man felt on a daily basis. Andre had a short life but he lived with passion and zeal. "
1639	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I really like Box Brown's art style. I felt like he did a good job of hitting a lot of the highlights (and lowlights) of Andre's life. The book flew by so fast though. I guess that's the sign of a good author who has picked a fascinating subject. They finish your book, yet you leave them wanting more.
1640	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was never into wrestling myself, but some friends a family are/were. I am interested in the physics of acromegaly, however, and knew a little bit about Andre before. This book was was way better than I expected. It’s raw, emotional, entertaining, and expertly paced. I recommend it to basically anyone.
1641	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This graphic novel, though well done, felt like such a tiny glimpse into the life of a man who is as infamous as the title suggests. I expected to feel more and think more about this story, which was over quickly and lacked the pathos I was expecting. I'm interested to see what else the author releases!
1642	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"What beautifully written biography told and illustrated in comic book form. Not what I expected at all. Author Box Brown reached into the soul of a man once called ""The Giant"" and brought out the human being behind the persona. Readers will well up with tears of sadness, feel their heart drop into the hollows of the stomach, and smile again. Wresting fans even more so. "
1643	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'm less sure how to judge a graphic novel, but it felt to me that a lot of the story (even in the individual anecdotes) went untold.  I would read a more thorough Andre the Giant biography. The author/artist was right about the subject and certainly appears to have done a lot of research to make the panels as accurate as possible.
1644	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This book wasn't what I expected; however, I think a professional wrestling fan would find it great. I wanted to hear more about Andre the person, and it is more about Andre the public figure. The art is terrific; the story just isn't my cup of tea. It will go on my classroom bookshelf for a young reader who will find it interesting.
1645	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Really good. Straight and to-the-point illustrations make this whole story pop. I really enjoyed the insight into the life of a human that I never knew much about but was always interested in from a young age. I had heard a few stories about his drinking prowess, but that was about it. A lot of fun to read.
1646	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Before reading this novel, I only knew of Andre the Giant by his appearance in the Princess Bride. I wasn't aware of his extensive career and many talents. I learned a lot about Andre's life as a wrestler and the impact he made on the wrestling world by stories of his friends and competition. Box Brown has a very effective drawing and story telling style. If you are nostalgic about either wrestling or the Princess Bride then this book would be a great read.
1647	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Probably almost a 3 star. I was interested in learning about his life and thought the graphic version would interesting. Though it was and I learned a lot about his Wrestling lifestyle ... it was a bit vague. Sometimes I didn’t always know what was going on. An interesting life for and interesting man.
1648	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A graphic novel biography of the legendary wrestler. Andre Roussimoff was a normal guy who'd been dealt an extraordinary hand in life. At his peak, he weighed 500 pounds and stood nearly seven and a half feet tall. But the huge stature ( a condition called acromegaly) that made his fame also signed his death warrant. This is an unvarnished look at him and well worth the read.
1649	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Love wrestling, love Andre the G, cool to hear more about his life; he once racked up a 40,000 bar bill, a whole bottle of vodka would make him feel ‘tingly’, he pretty much continued growing his whole life, he reached 7”3, he had a child that he only met 4 times in their life, hulk hogan was able to life him up in 83’. 
1650	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A short brief overview of Andre The Giant stories done in comic form. Gives a nice introduction to the bigger than life person turned professional wrestler.  Infamous & famous stories told include Andre’s ability to drink an obscene amount of wine, being able to actually fight fellow wrestlers, acting in the princess bride, and the most notable wrestling match with Hulk Hogan at Wrestlemania.
1651	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Really good graphic novel, I would recommend this to people who are interested in sports and history. It explorers the life of Andre the giant from his childhood to his death, it is a quick read and definitely worth it. one like that stood out to me was ""yes, the hospital had a nine foot bed for me."" (Brown 149) this line stuck out to me because it is funny but it also shows a lot of the struggles that can be seen in this graphic novel. "
1654	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Box Brown has created a wonderful book on one of wrestling’s greatest figures, Andre the Giant. This is well written and Browns art is as always wonderful. The book is informative, entertaining, real and it doesn't shy away from the darkness that surrounded Andre. Even if your not a wrestling fan I highly recommend this. 
1655	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'm sorry, but this book makes Andre look like a real jerk. The artwork is terrible and the storytelling is non-existent. The author starts out by telling people wrestling is all fake, and proceeds to point out all Andre's recorded mistakes gleaned from fan magazines and other wrestlers from 'behind-the-scenes' interviews. Even if it's all true, I would rather believe the myth.
1656	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	the source notes would prove this to be v well-researched but ultimately it felt disjointed? the stories skip around a lot, esp in the middle.  just have a soft spot for wrestling so it was nice to see familiar faces and stories in comic form! best part was the wrestlemania II breakdown — almost as if I watched the match myself 🤍
1657	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	So good! I'm not a big wrestling fan, but I found this at the library and my interest was piqued. I was thoroughly entertained. What a life! The art was fantastic and the story of Andre's life was absolutely gripping. I also really enjoyed the inside look at the wrestling profession. I laughed and had a big smile on my face just about the entire time I was reading this book.
1658	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I read this with my 10-year-old for his project board research on Andre the giant. It is probably not appropriate for 10 year olds but we enjoyed it and I glossed over some things for him. Overall I thought the style was excellent and it told a fairly cohesive story based on the limited information that is available about Andre.
1659	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	a charming, brief graphic bio. makes sense to tell andre’s story in a visual medium, and brown’s stylized cartooning captures his immensity and his dignity. it’s occasionally awkward- this treatment doesn’t really allow for a deep exploration of something like the bad news brown incident, but I’m glad it was at least included to avoid the hagiography version of the story 
1660	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Very interesting read. I didn't know much about Andre the Giant beyond that he had a wrestling career and was amazing in the Princess Bride. A crazy life story. I haven't read many biographies, but I liked the comic way of telling it; somehow it added to the realness for me
1661	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Not bad but not on par with other wrestling book on the market (well easier to make a prose when people still alive).  After reading this book, you will google on Andre the Giant so I guess it works,
1662	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A quick read, with some interesting bits of information from fellow wrestlers, but not a lot of background information. The book feels disjointed, without a natural flow. I did enjoy the blow-by-blow reenactment of some of Andre's fights.
1663	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I found this book to be sad. It give information but it feels like it skates over his live. I think it felt this way because it was giving so much information in graphic format it couldn't go deeper. I want to learn more about him. 
1664	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"An enjoyable comic book biography of Andre based on illustrated anecdotes and interpretation of archival footage (though ""Life and Legend"" is an appropriate subtitle given the nature of the subject). Unfortunately, it often feels like a collection of chronological stories and lacks depth."
1665	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Charming and fast-paced, but spare on details and perspectives. I'd read a version of this four times as long if it had more depth and character, although then it may have to veer towards historical fiction instead of this thin biography.
1666	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It felt a bit disjointed, as the narrative jumped from one encounter to the next. Some of the encounters didn't seem to make sense to the overall narrative. But, Andre is without a doubt a fascinating figure.
1667	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I liked the beginning of the story, but as Andre got older and started drinking and smoking, he became mean and bey rude. But at the same time I felt bad for him since he wouldn’t stop growing and will die around 40.
1668	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	There is something about the way that Box Brown examines real-life stories that just works for me. With Andre he presents him as he was warts and all never overplaying the truth for the sake of drama. Reality is enough to make this interesting.
1669	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	For someone who has always had zero interest in wrestling, this was actually worthwhile and quick read. Provides enough background to set context for us wrestling-clueless, and plenty of amusing anecdotes keep things moving along.
1670	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	FOUR-AND-A-HALF. Really terrific graphic novel on the life of Andre the Giant (who, if the stickers I see are to be believed, has a posse.) This is a nice companion piece to the wonderful HBO documentary on Andre that came out in 2018. And I don't even particularly enjoy wrestling! 
1671	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The story of Andre the Giant is one of many ups and downs, and the illustrations capture each of those moments perfectly. With interviews from other wrestling legends the story is completed and executed the best way possible.
1672	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A great biography of a legendary character, who lived larger than life. (7’4” and 500lbs!!)  Not sure I can put this in my middle school library due to some sexual content and offensive language though I know students would love to read this graphic novel.
1673	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Very ephemeral for a biography. Makes you think about how strange life is: how a person can live as something complete in a thousand imaginations yet struggle to imagine their own identity to themself.
1674	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I really didn't know much about Andre's life and career outside of The Princess Bride, so it was really nice to get a better understanding about him. I wasn't too thrilled that he was a deadbeat dad, but the rest was really informative on his impact on the sport of wrestling.
1675	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I loved learning about Andre the Giant's life through this graphic novel, and loved seeing the little flashes of his time on The Princess Bride. He lived such a full life and did his best in whatever he attempted and I am so proud to know a little more about him.
1676	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	3.5 [Pretty Good+] I really liked the art and the individual scenarios of Andre’s life were entertaining and enlightening. However, the overall story felt like it was full of holes; it didn’t feel too thorough. 
1677	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A really fun overview of Andre's life. Love when he meets Samuel Beckett and the story of Wrestlemania III is well told, as is the filming of the Princess Bride. Could have used his final run in WWE, including his work with Warrior, his team with Haku and the retirement redemption of his character.
1678	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I picked up this graphic novel after watching the documentary and so I think the movie might have lessened the impact of the book. However, the graphic novel, although transparently pro-Andre, doesn’t shy away from incidents where Andre looks less than legendary.
1679	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This suffered from being as short as it was. The author clearly loves the subject and wanted to cover more than there was space for, resulting in some subjects not getting enough attention. I wanted more.
1680	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was a pretty quick and short graphic novel, but it was nice. I already knew a lot of his story, as I have seen (more than one?) (just one?) documentary on his life. This doesn't go into as much detail, and focuses mostly on wrestling, because holy shit, Box Brown likes wrestling.  
1681	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was actually a sad experience, heavily focused on Andre's alcoholism and hardship. I'm curious how realistic this portrayal of his life is, if he would have told it this way. Not to say there can't be a negative slant to his story, but I wish it was more delicately handled, maybe.
1682	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A good biography for Andre the Giant. Swear words and adult situations. Addresses his huge impact and his faults. I wished there was more on his Japanese adventures but that could be a whole other book I suppose.
1683	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I have always loved wrestling ever since I was a kid and I loved Andre the Giant. His life was filled with friends and he loved to travel and loved his fans but seeing how much pain he was in for pretty much his whole life puts a lot of things into perspective. 
1684	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This a fantastic and quick read for any wrestling or Andre fan. I loved the mash up of different Andre stories and enjoyed how it spent more time on The Giant’s life than his wrestling. Very well done and Box Brown should be proud of his work.
1685	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Loved this graphic novel and the hulk hogan ending. The drawings make this so much better and I usually can't get into black and white graphic novels but he is my favorite wrestler and I love how he is portrayed in these drawings. 
1686	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It was a good book about a great guy. I’m not a wrestling fan, but I know of Andre the Giant. The princess bride, it’s actually one of my favorite movies. It was good to see into his life, the man behind the legend. 
1687	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'll admit that I picked this up because I love The Princess Bride. Sure, I watched Andre wrestle when I was younger too. And the book came with some pretty high recommendations. Those were just bonus reasons for me to read this book though.  This is an excellent biography. Given the format, some information is going to have to be cut. Box Brown does a wonderful job of creating a narrative from Andre's life. It shows the hardships he had to deal with beginning at a very young age. This is reinforced throughout the book. I don't think it was overused. There was just enough to make sure the reader doesn't forget about it. The book gives a fair portrayal of Andre. Brown isn't trying to show him as anything other than a real person with good and bad moments mixed in.  I have some mixed feelings on the art. The style fits in with the other books I've read from First Second. It tends to be more cartoonish, which I don't always like. Brown uses the art to portray Andre as this larger than life person. This may not have been possible with a different drawing style. All in all, this is a great book. I learned a lot from it.
1689	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Read our review at https://bookthreat.com/2017/07/05/pen...
1691	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The drawings were well done. I learned a little about the life of one of America's favorite wrestlers. 
1692	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Not a great book. Few stories, mediocre art. Sort of seems like Andre was a jerk based on this.
1693	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Not as good as I hoped it would be. made him look like a nasty person, and was vey superficial.
1694	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	How else would you portray his life if not in a graphic novel? Really made me want to look more into his life and work.
1695	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I felt like this book lacked context and continuity, overall. I like the way it explained wrestling terms and concepts, but didn't feel like it did much to explain why people loved Andre so much.
1696	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Pretty interesting take on the life of Andre. A bit dull in parts, should have more insight into his behaviour.
1697	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Fun, sad, and incomplete(?) story of AtG. He was portrayed as a jerk with a good heart. Decent read.
1698	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A terrific biography of Andre.
1700	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I wish this had a little more to it. I liked it but definitely wasn't what I expected and the only new fact I learned from it was about the movie Rocky. 
1701	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I liked the art and the author’s passion, but there wasn’t enough material. The stories felt empty and unfinished. The match with Hulk Hogan was my favorite part.
1702	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	oof, he had a hard life but he was not a very nice person
1703	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A delight. Art is simple and lovely, and it was nice to read a story featuring Mean Gene the day after his sad passing
1704	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Really good Very similar to the documentary. It portrays a nicely nuanced picture of him.
1705	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Read in one sitting. The intro about wrestling was insightful. A timeline of his life would have been a nice addition.
1706	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	disjointed, with very little depth.
1707	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Quick graphic novel. Some great stories of his life.
1709	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is a beautiful story of an amazing man. This book tells of the life of Andre the Giant, his career in wrestling, his acting career, and his hardships going through life as a giant.
1710	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	There's always been a soft spot in my heart for Andre the Giant. It's nice to learn more about him. 
1711	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	An interesting and simplistic read both in writing and art. 
1714	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It was very interesting, and the art is amazing.
1715	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	As someone who enjoys graphic narrative and wrestling, this was a real treat to read. 
1717	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Beautiful, detailed illustrations. Fantastic storytelling. I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
1718	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The art was great. Wish it was more in depth that a few random stories from the road
1719	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'm not a wrestling fan but wanted to know more about Andre (Princess Bride fan). What a life! Well told, of course, great subject.
1720	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A wonderful fly-over through Andre the Giant's life. For me, though, the narrative felt too piecemeal without any direct through line from beginning to end.
1721	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Nice charming fun book to read. The illustrations looked cool and unique.
1722	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I thought this was great
1723	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I appreciated this graphic novel biography! Andre the Giant has affected culture in a myriad of ways. This book is fun.
1725	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Good detail, well researched. The black & white graphics were easy to follow.
1726	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Quick, fun, and informative read. Very well done comic.
1727	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Such a great telling of his life! 
1728	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	DNF 37% Felt like the story was moving too quickly. Not enough time for pause.
1729	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	What a life!
1730	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A quick breeze through the life of Andre the Giant. Never overstated its welcome and got you in and out over the many moments over his career. 
1732	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I wanted to know more. I liked how honest this comes across but there's really no depth here.
1733	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Fabulous story from an important and kind view. 
1734	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Everyone loves Andre the Giant! Great graphic novel biography of his life. I enjoyed it thoroughly!
1735	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Nicely illustrated and interesting but I feel as if I would have enjoyed it much more had I been a fan of WWF back in the day.
1738	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I read this a while back, on the heels after consuming some other Andre the Giant biography. I remember this book had great illustrations, but the narrative seemed a bit disjointed.
1739	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Didn't learn as much as I wanted to, but I did learn this fun fact: Samuel Beckett used to give rides to Andre the Giant to school!
1740	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Very good, this will stay with me for a while
1741	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Actual Rating: 2.5 Stars I thought this graphic novel was fine. I was expecting this to be about Andre's life rather than just his wrestling career. Honestly, I felt like Andre was put into something he was good at but not something he had a passion for. I can't say for certain of course, but I felt like he would have loved to spend his life on his farm and had a family. But instead he was put into wrestling because he was big and could easily bring in the money. This is a quick read but not one that I particularly cared for or would recommend.  Happy Reading my Friends.
1742	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	First Line:         It would be difficult to discuss the life of Andre the Giant without a small foundational discussion of the world he lived in, p.1.     Box Brown’s graphic novel provides an honest look at a man who was told at a young age he wouldn’t live past 40, a man who was always out of place, and a man of disreputable character. Andre Roussimoff grew up in Molien, France before he became apart of the wrestling world. Early in his wrestling career he was diagnosed with acromegaly i.e. his body continued to produce the human growth hormone. Told through peer anecdotes and television interviews Brown delivers a realist portrayal of the wrestling legend. What Dazzled: The artwork! Before this book I was unfamiliar with cartoonist Box Brown. His clean and simple style was easy to read and enjoy. The author also includes all his sources and notes. It's obvious Brown researched his subject. What Fizzled: I grew up loving the movie The Princess Bride and Andre’s character Fezzik was one of my favorites. Being a child I assumed that Andre was his character, the kind, lovably, giant. Brown’s biography shows that Andre was definitely not solely his character, but a fallible human. A good biography should represent the whole person, and Brown’s novel did that. Still, it’s hard to read about the decisions and remarks made by Roussimoff. Jots and Thoughts: “Anybody want a peanut?” Still one of my favorite movies. *Language and sexual themes
1743	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Suitable intro into the life of Andre the Giant but provides only very superficial treatment of his fascinating persona (well, it is a graphic novel). Box Brown's newer work, ""Tetris: The Games People Play,"" is much stronger."
1745	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A wonderful, unflinching biography of the most dynamic figure in professional wrestling. An enjoyable read, even if you aren’t a wrestling fan.
1746	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Andre the Giant: Life and Legend is a 2014 biographical graphic novel summarising the life and legacy of the world's largest athlete Andre the Giant. Written and drawn by cartoonist Box Brown (Tetris: The Games People Play) this portrayal of the larger than life and character has some stand out moments. Coming in at around 230 which is around the average size of a graphic novel it is a pretty quick read.  The story starts off with a 2010 interview where Hulk Hogan talks fondly of his ""friend"" Andre the Giant (No one is really sure how friendly Hogan and Andre were). This sets the scene for the emotional journey we are about to go through. Hogan depicts Andre as a friendly, kind and loving man who just wanted a comfortable life. However, his disability prevented him from being able to do normal things that many take for granted. He struggled with travel, had to sleep in horrible conditions in hotels and endured great amounts of pain. This gives us the reader a sense of where the journey Brown is trying to take us in Andre's life.  He was a wrestling legend throughout the 70's and 80's while travelling the world wrestling in places from the USA to Japan he became a must see attraction for any wrestling fan. He became so popular that not only did he star in several films but had spots on Late Night shows such as David Letterman. The graphic novel goes into some detail about these events but I couldn't help but feel that most of the stories told were not fleshed out near enough as much as they could. Although it goes into great detail at points about how Andre was arrogant, nasty and caused fights with wrestlers and random people. I felt this hurt the story overall and could have been dealt with better. These do help to show how much of a struggle the Giants life was but at times it felt like there could have been more stories that portrayed him in a better light.  The art style is black and white with a simplistic design. It feels very reminiscent of the Peanuts style of cartoon drawing at times. This makes the book feel lighthearted and fun but when combined with sections such as Andre the Giant saying ""Nigger"" in front of Bad News Brown it takes you away from the realism of the situation.  Dialogue feels choppy and come on how many people say boss at the end of each sentence in this book? At times we have a lot of dialogue which helps to build the story and create immersion into the events that happened and then other times there are panels where we are given only a few words that don't really build the story. The pacing of the story is damaged by this slightly however the overall story manages to still come through when we reach the end.  My favourite part however is the breakdown of the Wrestlemania III match with Hulk Hogan. The narration isn't presented in the way that it is at that time rather that it is giving a post match analysis looking back at it now. Describing all of the parts of the matches where Andre was probably tired, where spots were called and little things that helped make the match better. Personally, I am not a big fan of the match but this section made me want to go back and watch it.  Overall, it is a good graphic novel that has some stand out moments and an art style that doesn't put you off reading. I would recommend this to any wrestling fan and non-wrestling fan as it is a great inspiring story of a man who didn't fit into this world but found an outlet in wrestling.  http://bigglasgowcomic.com/andre-the-..."
1747	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Late last year, I read Cary Elwes' As You Wish: Inconceivable Tales from the Making of The Princess Bride , a memoir of the making of that film. In it, Andre the Giant holds an important place, and I enjoyed many of the anecdotes relating to his presence on the set. This in turn reminded me of this comics biography of Andre, which I became aware of a while back, but had not yet got around to. It is written and drawn by Box Brown, with whose work I was not previously familiar. However, this volume shows him to be a very competent cartoonist, and his treatment of the subject, which itself is tricky given the myth-making machine of the wrestling world of which Andre was a part, is credibly researched and fairly translucent in its treatment of sources and how to judge their veracity.  All in all, this is an interesting read.  
1748	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre Roussimoff, better know as Andre the Giant, was a figure bigger than life. He was a heroic pro-wrestling figure and the lovable giant Fezzik in The Princess Bride. At the height of his fame he was seven and a half feet tall and weighed over 500lbs (possibly topping 700lbs later in life.) He was this way thanks to a genetic disorder, acromegaly, that caused him to never stop growing...and ultimately led to his death at a young age. But who was he really? A hero? A wrestler? A monster to be scared of? In this graphic novel Box Brown draws on a variety of sources, including videos of colleagues like Hulk Hogan, and film stars such as Robin Wright, Billy Crystal, Mandy Patinkin, to craft the biography of one the most recognizable figures of the 20th Century. Even if you never watched wrestling, this is still a tale to read.  This is not a traditional graphic novel as Box is drawing on a variety of sources, some reliable and some not, to tell the story of Andre the Giant. And unlike a traditional biography, we never get quite a complete picture of Andre. Instead we get slice of life moments, such as him working for a moving company or his fights with fellow wrestlers. They capture small stories in a larger tale about this giant. And yet...Box does an admirable job of giving us a sense of who Andre really is, with his quirks, his faults and flaws, and the good within his life. We see that while he was know as a hero across the world, that at his core he was as human as the rest of us. He could be quick to anger, he could be violent when drunk, he could say things that would hurt other people. And then other times he could be compassionate, giving money to the homeless and offering comfort at times of need. And that even with his money and fame and talent, he was content with the simple things of his life of being on his farm in North Carolina.  Box does an excellent job of capturing the variety of people in Andre's life, ranging from Andre himself to Hulk Hogan to his managers and to move stars such as Mandy Patinkin. Although the drawings are simple black and white, Box gives them life by their facial expressions and the movements of their eyes. He does an great job in particular of capturing how Andre looked throughout the years, which can be a difficult task given that his genetic disorder caused him to age prematurely.  Box does a fantastic job of capturing this gentle giant, for all of his faults and flaws, as a human being. He shows us that all Andre wanted was to live his life and enjoy it, regardless of how others perceived him. It's a fitting biography for one of the most famous figures of the 1980's/90's and one that is sure to be enjoyed by anyone that grew up watching Andre. I give it 4 out of 5 stars.  ARC provided by Gina at First Second
1750	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Ok I will admit that I originally picked up this book because of Andre's involvement in ""The Princess Bride"". I thought he was brilliant in the movie, and so funny. I knew he had been a professional wrestler, but didn't know much about him, so I decided to give this graphic novel a try because Andre seemed to have the kind of life that would be more interesting in a visual form. I enjoyed the story, though as other reviewers have mentioned, it wasn't as personal as I would've liked, but rather from a outsider point-of-view.  I have never enjoyed watching professional wrestling as a sport because I know it's faked, plus it seems reminds me of a soap opera with all its heroes and villains. As the author/illustrator points out in the author's note in the beginning of the book, ""The culture of professional wrestling is, in some ways, built upon mass deception."" However, in the case of someone like Andre the Giant, it seems like a good fit. Here you take someone who would not ordinarily fit in and because of his size and strength, he is in a profession where he was respected, loved and makes a whole lot of money doing what he was good at.  Andre Roussimoff was born in France to a Polish family, and was already taller than the average adult by the time he was twelve. He starts wrestling in Paris in 1969. He goes to Japan on his first international tour in 1970, where he first learns of his condition, Acromegaly, a tumor that grows on the pituitary gland of the brain which causes abnormal growth. It will cause him to ""age prematurely, become crippled and his brow and jaw will become more pronounced (pg 53)"". Plus he will only live to age 40, which is what precipitates his constant need for alcohol (of which he drinks copious amounts of in the book) to forget about that fact. From Japan, he flies to Montreal to fight. He's there for about a year before he heads to New York in 1973, where he meets Vince McMahon Sr, who is really the key to why Andre became one of the most popular professional wrestlers in America. Hulk Hogan, who was the only professional wrestler I really recognized growing up, was essentially Andre's protege. Andre the Giant was 7'5"" and about 500 lbs at the height of his popularity. He died around age 40 in the country of his birth. 3 stars.  Disclaimer: I received this book via NetGalley in exchange for my honest review."
1751	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I have been looking forward to this book ever since I found out about it's existence. As a wrestling fan, as a comic fan, and as a fan of biographies... The weird thing about this project is it starts off with two and a half prose pages about the world of wrestling, kayfabe, and ""shoots"". And how it's hard to tell whether any wrestler is being honest when they are speaking, ever. After the comic, there is a ""Source Notes"" page that breaks the entire comic down, event by event, citing where Box Brown found each story. Every biography ever written has been done with outside research, obviously but all of the sources here are outside sources. The author got all of his information from DVDs and other biographies. The pairing of that with the preface, warning the reader that it is very difficult to find the truth in the wrestling world gives the comic shaky grounds for this work to be considered a biography. It gives off a vibe that you're enjoying an illustrated Wikipedia page.  The comic itself, I found to be pretty enjoyable and fun. I really enjoyed the art style but not necessarily the art, if that makes sense. Some of the sequences just felt a little clunky, at times. Brown lets the art do a lot of the story telling at times. When you are relying on just visuals instead of visuals and text, the sequencing becomes a bigger piece to the puzzle.  Overall, I ended up enjoying this as a comic book and as someone with an interest in wrestling. Brown adds a lot of asides to help non-wrestling fans with terminology, but as a wrestling fan, slow down the experience and take the reader out of the storytelling flow. As a biography, I don't really know if I liked it... As I said before, you're left with this feeling of doubt. ""Did any of what I just read, actually happen?"" But on the other hand, we are reading a biography of a 7'4"" giant, The Eighth Wonder of the World, a wrestling legend... Andre lived his entire life with people making things up about him. This is the 10ft tall man who once ate another human, afterall... An illustrated collection of second hand stories, told from the mouths of his brothers of industry, may be the perfect biography for the man named Andre Roussimoff and the myth known as The Giant."
1752	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A charming biographical comic of legendary wrestler Andre the Giant. Box Brown’s book mostly consists of two- and three-page anecdotes, like playwright Samuel Beckett driving the giant teenager to school, and Andre draping one massive hand over a co-star’s head on a cold set to keep her warm. These vignettes are usually either cute or request compassion for someone who was too large to fit comfortably in our world and still wanted to make the people around him happy. This continues after wrestling makes him a millionaire, as we see Andre casually buying drinks for anyone who travels with, and quickly emptying his pockets for a homeless woman. It’s the sort of book that makes it easy to see why so many people who met him loved the man.  But it doesn’t earn the “DEFINITIVE BIOGRAPHY” claim that’s written on its cover. It is closer to the only biography, short perhaps Dave Meltzer’s obituary issue for the man. Because so many anecdotes are one-offs, little of the book deals with the facts of Andre’s life. His fathering a little girl feels particularly underdeveloped; he’s given a line about fearing he’d be a bad parent to her, and that’s all we ever get to explain why he seems to have abandoned her. Mentioned a couple of times before recapping an A Current Affair piece, it reminds you that the book isn’t a deep look at his life. It’s mostly a collection of stories from people he met on the road.  It made me crave a true biography on the legend, and it does some things that a prose book couldn’t. Brown draws one panel of Andre checking his teeth in the mirror that more accurately depicts how tiny they were in relation to his frame than the written word ever will. And Brown’s art is adorable, drawing even trim folk like Roddy Piper as pudgy, smiling figures, fit for a Lego set.  The art contributes to my favorite thing about this biography: it presents itself so positively, as Andre tended to when he wasn’t playing a villain. It was greatly refreshing to read a comic, even a non-fiction one, where so many of the characters actually enjoyed some of their challenging lives. That’s a beautiful theme for any biography to give.
1753	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Really more like 2.5 stars, but that's not possible on Goodreads, so tie goes to the runner (or some analogy more relevant to wrestling).  I'm not the most qualified to review this book because it's the first graphic novel I've read in more than a decade. I also knew nothing about professional wrestling and very little about Andre the Giant before reading this.  Box Brown is a better artist than he is a writer. Some of the drawings are exceptional, setting the tone for the scenes they illustrate, creating a mood, drawing the eye. Brown is less adept at drawing scene-setting overheads of rooms. Most unfortunately, he's not great at drawing the interaction of human bodies. That makes the wrestling scenes particularly hard to follow. It helps that most of the wrestling scenes have descriptive text in caption boxes.  As a biography, this is far from ideal. It's more a series of illustrative vignettes from Andre the Giant's life. In a foreword, Brown warns readers that he will embellish and invent from time to time. Despite a handy index of sources indicating where scenes came from and what was invented in each, it's not apparent that Brown took nearly as much poetic license as he claims. There's little insight or speculation into why Andre the Giant said or did anything. Most of the novel reads as exemplifying Hulk Hogan's insights, laid out in the first few pages of the graphic novel: that Andre the Giant battled constant pain and ostracism to be the kind man the world perceived him to be.  In the end, that is an inspiring message. An imperfectly researched, imperfectly illustrated, and imperfectly written graphic novel nevertheless accomplishes much of what it sets out to do. Like professional wrestling, it may work its audience (a theme given a surprising amount of attention in the novel)...but it entertains. As one of the wrestlers tells an angry fan in a memorable scene, ""You got everything you paid for.""  Now that I won't be reading a graphic novel on the bus anymore, do you think people will sit next to me again?"
1754	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It's fine. The clean drawing style is nice and it does a good job of providing a balanced representation of Andre as a man. Of course there is no depth to the characters and the whole story probably focuses a bit too much on the wrestling for my taste, but that is understandable for a graphic novel.
1755	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	 The art style, except for large-scale scenes, is nice, and it's great to see an approachable, easy-reading, brief encapsulation of Andre the Giant's life. Brown has definitely done some research, and he includes notes on sources, a bibliography, and even a glossary of wrestling terms. I only wish there was more meaningful content, as some scenes are dragged out and boring, such as multiple panels of an upset female fan glaring at Andre and complaining about him not giving her son an autograph -- one of several scenes of pointless tension with no real conflict. It seems Brown used his 'creative liberty' to little effect in these cases, or perhaps Andre didn't lead that exciting a life outside his career, alcoholism, and fatal condition. I wonder if Brown could have dug a little deeper and interviewed more to get the material he needed to really make this a gem? It seems hard to believe, given his interest in both Andre and wrestling, and his attention to detail involving footnotes and appendices. Perhaps he simply didn't want to get too deep in this format and market and could only come up with fodder to replace the depth. Regardless, and moving along, he definitely could have put more effort into chronological and scenic transitions, as they were mostly abrupt and sometimes confusing.  I think the level of detail will suffice for most readers, particularly high school readers, and Brown has given me the urge to learn more about Andre. I have many questions, such as: could Andre have gotten surgery at some point to halt his acromegaly? If he had the option, did he choose instead to live out his life as a hard-drinking titan of the limelight? A real colossus, doing battle and throwing himself into life until it killed him? Kudos to Brown for putting out an accessible work highlighting this fascinating man. RIP, Andre.  True Rating: 3.2 Stars
1756	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	As a middle school student I vividly remember seeing a rerun of Hulk Hogan taking down Andre The Giant with my friends. Afterwards using the power of dial-up internet access we went looking for more information about this legendary wrestler. If he had played in the NBA, he didn’t, he would have been taller than nearly everyone save the late Manute Bol. Legends and giants have ways of growing into hyperbole that make it difficult nail down what’s fact and what’s fiction.  This is one of the reasons I love Box Brown’s graphic novel biography, Andre the Giant: Life and Legend. Brown wisely provides the reader a three page introduction in which he explains professional wrestling culture and how he crafted this story via larger than life interviews with pro wrestlers themselves, videos, and books about the sport. Brown is acutely aware of his need to take liberties and use his best judgement as he crafted this tale about professional wrestling, a man, a legend, and the complexities of living in a world built upon deception and ca$h money.  Brown’s black and white illustrations are stunning and his interview with Hulk Hogan at the beginning of the story really set a tone for me that I loved. The situations Andre found himself in range from the bizarre to heartbreaking, and in the end, will make this an eye opening read for wrestling fans and those who remember Andre from The Princess Bride alike. Andre The Giant: Life and Legend provides readers with a fascinating vision of a man who was literally and figuratively larger than life.  Andre the Giant: Life and Legend by Box Brown Recommended for: Adults 
1757	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"One of the strengths of a graphic novel is that it can show things that a regular novel cannot. Box Brown, in his ""Andre the Giant: Life and Legend"" uses the format to the fullest, detailing legendary wrestler Andre the Giant's lifelong battle with acromegaly, a condition where excess growth hormone is produced by the body through adulthood resulting in many physical complications including an enlarged heart, joint problems and disfigurement. We see his relative size in comparison to others, as well as his physical deterioration over time leading to his untimely death.  Many of the stories here will be familiar to fans of Andre, including his ring exploits, his beloved role as Fezzik in ""The Princess Bride,"" and his legendary drinking. There are also some surprising tidbits including the fact that Nobel Prize winner Samuel Beckett, author of ""Waiting for Godot,"" used to drive Andre to school in his truck when he had trouble fitting in the bus. We also learn that Andre had a racist episode with Bad News Brown (for which he apologized later), and fathered one child he only saw a few times and for whom he ducked child support payments for years.  The book does a great job at presenting Andre's softer side, his courage at facing his condition, and his difficulties dealing with being a giant in a normal-sized world. It balances the man with the myth well, and presents a good behind-the-scenes look at professional wrestling and the physical toll the show really takes on its stars.  I found the book to be very interesting and would recommend it for anyone with at least a passing interest in Andre the Giant and the world of professional wrestling."
1758	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Box Brown's cartoon biography of Andre reads mostly like a collection of vignettes, rather than a straightforward narrative of the man's life. But this suits Brown's artistic style well, allowing him room to demonstrate Andre's enormous size via panel placement and visual context. The biographical details are honest, detailing many of Andre's faults, including his treatment of fans, his daughter, and professional colleagues. Brown also does a nice job of explaining the many physical ailments Andre endured because of his size.  Wrestling fans will be well-served by Brown's knowledge of the spectacle and show-business aspects of professional wrestling. I was particularly intrigued by the story of how Andre contributed to the rise of Hulk Hogan as a wrestling star. There is a small section about Andre's work in ""The Princess Bride,"" but the main emphasis here is on his wrestling career.  Brown's cartooning style is reminiscent of a less detail oriented Chris Ware, though his storytelling style is much more casual (for better and for worse) than Ware's. The entire biography can be easily read in one sitting, which will probably serve readers who are only curious about Andre. Brown does provide notes and a bibliography for those who care to delve into more detail.  There are occasionally poignant passages, especially near the end of the book, as Andre's physical difficulties become more pronounced. But for the most part, Brown's book offers a sampling of incidents in Andre's life that are engaging, though perhaps not memorable enough to last long in the reader's mind after the book is finished."
1759	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Graphic novel format biography of Andre the Giant; interesting and entertaining on two levels.  First, the life of Andre the Giant itself -- a mix of tragedy and triumph. He is portrayed as a gentle man (though not without a temper), talented, and troubled, in small snippets of his life, from the age of 12 up until his death. Some of the vignettes are played for humor, others for pathos. The book does not shy away from discussing or portraying some of the more difficult parts of his life, such as his health issues and his epic drinking. The work really stands out when Box Brown contributes his own analysis of Andre's wrestling matches. He observes and illustrates these moments in a way that shows a lot of love and respect for the subject of his biography.  Second, the introduction itself sets up another interesting way of looking at the biography, noting that in both professional wrestling and biography, there is always the question of how much is ""real"", and what ""real"" even means in that context. How much of Andre's wrestling career was genuine and how much was scripted? How many of the stories told by his friends and colleagues are true, and how many are part of the mystique built up around him? Brown does an excellent job looking at both his wresting matches and anecdotes with a critical eye, but even he admits that the line between the man and the character is sometimes hard to discern.  The only weakness in this book, for me, was that there was very little story about ""The Princess Bride"" -- just small scenes described by fellow actors on the film. I would have loved more of an exploration of how he got the role and his experiences filming it."
1760	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Beginning in Molien, France, in 1958, this graphic novel* traces the wrestling career of Andre Roussimoff. Over seven feet tall and weighing in at 600 pounds, the man was truly a giant.  Author Box Brown captures the true flavor of professional wrestling as he chronicles Andre's life in and out of the ring. Life in the spotlight led to heavy drinking and at times a vulgar lifestyle. Brown explains that the stressful and physically taxing life of a wrestler would have been hard enough, but it was even more devastating for Andre since his huge bulk was due to a condition known as acromegaly. Guaranteed, because of the condition, to have a shorter than normal lifespan, Andre made the most of his fame and traveled the world to perform for his fans.  Brown also lets readers into the inner world of pro-wrestling. He describes the roles of hero and ""heel"" as the wrestlers get the crowd geared up before the fights. In Andre's career he played both roles well. Readers also learn some of the secrets of how moves are faked to create the theatrical performance well-known in the sport.  ANDRE THE GIANT portrays the man behind the legend in startling detail. His personal life, his appearances in movies, as well as his professional career are clearly written and illustrated within the graphic format.  *One note of caution - considering the graphic novel style might attract younger readers, this reviewer cautions some of the language and innuendo are more suited to mature readers. "
1761	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Neither a hit-piece nor an elegy; I'm so used to one or the other that I had to get myself used to just reading the various details and drawing the conclusions based on that episode, which makes for a very true-to-life biography, if not the most narratively satisfying one. I actually ended up with this on my list because I thought 'twas Andre the Giant: Closer to Heaven, drawn by the illustrator Denis Medri, whose work I love. The style in this was very D+Q, which worked, but wasn't really for me.  I should also say that, even tho this is obviously the story of a professional wrestler, and I now know more about that world than I did before, it wasn't for me a great introduxion into that world. The author is obviously a big fan who wanted to share his passion, but it didn't connect. I'd possibly've connected better with a fellow outsider who did the research than a fan.  The material about The Princess Bride (which, as a non-wrestling-fan, was obviously my point of entry here) was somewhat interesting: of a piece with what I knew before, which isn't surprising since it's based on DVD features. Very different from the nuanced (or, as I said, true-to-life) portrayal elsewhere, since all the actors on the movie seemed to love him.
1762	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Pretty good book, the art is is clean and the content of the story interesting. This is the story of an ordinary man who became famous because of his larger than life size and died young because of his size. 
1763	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Okay, so this graphic novel was okay and I learned a lot. Unfortunately, I didn't really LIKE what I learned. I didn't really LIKE Andre the giant. He drinks. He smokes. He swears and has sex with lots of women. He stages fake wrestling fights (granted that's wrestling I don't like, not him there). He uses offensive language. (Spoilers: he abandons his daughter and doesn't share any of his millions with her.) The only redeeming quality the book emphasizes is how his size affected his health and how people's perceptions of him affect him, but that wasn't really in there enough for me to feel that bad for him. All around, he seemed like a real douche. The book effectively re-enacted his ""fights"" but there was no real story arc to this. If the artist is just trying to tell Andre's true story, I'd rather not know it. I'd rather pretend that he was actually Fezzick from the Princess Bride. I know now though that Andre the Giant was a drunk, a womanizer, and incredibly sad about the condition that caused him to grow to be 700 lbs. Poor man, but $40,000 worth of alcohol? That's just insane. "
1764	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I first picked up Andre the Giant: Life and Legend because I like the movie Princess Bride. While this graphic novel was interesting enough, it was not what I was expecting. It is more an examination of the quirks of professional wrestling than anything else. The author seems to think the idea that professional wrestling is staged is a big secret. This cracked me up to no end. The most interesting bits of this graphic novel—Andre’s personality, how he dealt with being oversized in a world not built for him, and how he felt about the way people treated him—were unfortunately not the focus of this book. While the blocky, minimalist style of the art didn’t detract from the telling of the story, it didn’t add anything, either. Perhaps someone with an interest in professional wrestling would enjoy this more than I did. 
1765	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	One of the biggest revelations I had in my 20s was that there was (is) this whole Cult of Boy obsession with wrestling I was almost entirely unaware of throughout the '80s and '90s. I mean, sure, I knew the big names and would look on as my great-grandfather watched wrestling on Sundays, but I was mostly familiar with the dudes from their hawking food items in commercials and occasional movie stints. Andre the Giant, however, was ever-present for whatever reason--I don't recall watching The Princess Bride until later into my tweens or teens, so I'm guessing it was merely the spectacle--and this bio is FABULOUS in its portrayal of Andre the Human Being. It also provided a gratifying brief glimpse into that Cult of Boy I was never a part of but can enjoy now as a 31-year-old GIRL (cooties, ewwwwwww!).
1766	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I knew very little about Andre the Giant except for his role in ""The Princess Bride"", and I knew he'd been a wrestler. So I was intrigued to read this and learn more! The illustrations were simple, but I enjoyed that. The author notes at the beginning that it's a compilation of stories he collected from friends and people who knew Andre, so I was expecting it to be disjointed, but she did a great job connecting them and making it flow as a single story. However, at the end of it, I still feel like Andre is a bit of a mystery - perhaps because it was an outsiders point of view, and I get the impression that no one really knew him well. I did still learn a lot about his life, and also about Hulk Hogan (whom I knew nothing about except that he's a wrestler - it was very interesting how their careers crossed paths!)"
1767	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was fascinated by this look into moments through Andre the Giant's life from the opening author's note. Rather than writing (and drawing) a full biography Brown chose to pick specific moments from throughout Andre's life, significant and average, to show the contradictions of his personality; both as a wonderful person and a rather self-centred alcoholic who only met his daughter a couple of times.  Sifting the truth from the stories is a difficult procedure for any biographer, and the over the top nature of wrestling makes the process even more difficult. Andre was larger than life in every way, standing out from the start due to his illness. Switching from being publicly insulted and revered in the ring he was in near constant pain towards the end. This was a great view into his life.
1768	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	As a wrestling fan, I absolutely loved this book. I've heard stories here and there about the man that was Andre the Giant. His mythos was incredible and sometimes unbelievable, but deep down you know you wanted it to be real. Box Brown does an excellent job gathering all of the stories from other wrestlers, and celebrities. Wrestling stories can get out of control sometimes, but this adds to the story. Brown also prefaces the box with the fact that wrestlers exaggerate stories to help them get over, proving that wrestling is the most unique mainstream industry.  The art is simple, yet effective. Very cartoony, but so is the world of professional wrestling. If you are looking for a fun, one of a kind biography, I will recommend this book. It's a short read and it delivers an amazing story about a simple, larger than life person.
1769	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The author is very even handed with Andre: he faithfully portrayed his struggles, mistakes, triumphs and daily life, making his subject a human being we can sympathize with without leaving out the parts of life he didn't do so well. Especially poinant is Andre The Giant's continual attempts to forget that he will die very young and with a great deal of pain.  There was more here about wrestling than any other aspect of Andre's life, and the author does a nice job making sure non-wrestling fans can keep up. I did hope for more stories about Andre than were present, especially his childhood in France, where he was too large to ride the school bus and had to ride to school with playwright Samuel Beckett. The section on The Princess Bride was also very thin. Lots of celebrities (Arnold Schwarzenegger, The Rock, ect) have stories about him, but few are present here.
1770	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Stunning, absolutely stunning. Being a lifelong wresting and comic book fan I knew that I was going to love this. First off, I'd like to say that you don't need to be a fan of wrestling or comic books to enjoy this. You just need to be a fan of good writing. Okay, here we go. This book was a perfect combination of information and entertainment. You learn, and you have fun all that the same time. Sadly, I learned that Andre was a racist, and a bully. That's too bad, because I always was a fan of him. One of my favorite parts is when he is in Portland, Maine (where I live), and I get to see some familiar landmarks beautifully drawn. This book features great artwork, a fast paced story (maybe a little too fast), and lots of cool information about a classic wrestler that everyone knows. Buy this book and read it in one sitting. You won't regret it. 
1771	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I loved this! I have never watched a wrestling match in my life, yet I was immediately engaged with the story, and read it in one sitting. Who doesn't love a cute cartoon Andre (and adorable cartoon Hulk Hogan)? And this short biography has a huge range of emotion -- sadness, humor, moral ambiguity, kindness, mean-ness. It's all here! Like a real person, Andre is presented as neither all-good or all-bad, with a wide range of stories from many individuals. And it's readable in 30 minutes-ish! Somehow it conveys so many different sides of Andre to try and reveal the true person beneath, while also showing the ""kayfabe"" of wrestling for people who normally wouldn't read wrestling books, or who might turn up their noses at wrestlemania.  I didn't think I'd start my 2015 giving 5 stars to a book about wrestling!  Note: definitely YA/adult for mild language & sexual content!"
1772	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Since James handled the main review, I didn't give this a complete read until very recently. It's every bit as good as everyone said, and deserves all positive comments it's already gotten.  Box levels up here as a creator, using his geometric style to great effect, lending visual complexity to a biographical tale, and making the scale of Andre's size really show, especially in contrast to the other wrestlers. His likenesses are great, and I love that he discusses the realities of pro wrestling with its images and myths.  He also is very honest--Andre's not always shown in the best light--but doesn't condemn him for heavy drinking or having a rough side because of always being stared at, no matter where he went.  A stunning graphic biography that's a must-read for anyone who had just a bit of wrestling in their soul, or who still quotes from Princess Bride.
1773	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The real story of the life of Andre the Giant is a complex representation of his life- without the glamour and fantasy of many celebrity centered works. It is raw, and on occasion a rough portrayal of his virtues, vices, and difficulties. It allowed highly personal glimpses of the harsher reality he faced due to his size, and how he dealt with it through living his life as he wanted to live. A powerful contrast is drawn between the man and the disease that drove him to stardom, alcoholism, and through many struggles. The illustrative style matches the time period of the story well, with clean, simple looking line-work (that was likely difficult to produce), which lead to a cartoon style of realism that made Andre's size plain without exaggerating for effect. All together, an excellent biography of a graphic novel. 
1774	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	- I was really disappointed with this book.  - I was hoping for more of Andre's life and him dealing with his physical condition. Instead the story is about Andre's career as a wrestler and the wresting world.  - I wanted more on his role in The Princess Bride. The movie only got a couple pages, and it didn't go into detail on anything it was just a few fun panels.  - I didn't like how Andre was portrayed. Cary Elwes describes him as a very kind and gentle soul. He only had high praise for Andre, and this graphic novel paints him in a darker light with very little to no mention of his kinder side.  - There is a lot of F-bombs. It was a bit ridiculous how often that word showed up.  - Overall, I wouldn't recommend this. If you want to know about Andre, read As You Wish.
1775	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I really liked Andre the Giant prior to reading this book. I grew up watching Princess Bride (over and over), but never got into the fake wrestling scene (sorry, I mean wrestling entertainment.) I did have a good impression of Andre though.  Unfortunately after reading this book, I liked him less. Admittedly this is because the author wasn't shy about showing the less pleasant moments in Andre's life. I would say that someone into the WWF during Andre's life is likely to enjoy this more. It seemed to be more about his wrestling life than his pwrsonal life. I would have loved to have seen more about his family, relationships, and other aspects of his life aside from wrestling.  All this could be unreasonable if, in fact, Andre's life really only consisted of wrestling. All in all, it was a quick read though.
1776	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Having been a pro wresting fan for all of my childhood, and still having quite the soft spot for it today, I had some high-ish hopes for Andre the Giant: Life and Legend. Granted, I was too young to really watch Andre, and mostly grew up on Hulk Hogan and his vitamins, but I’ve still breathed this culture.  In all honesty, it’s a fine read. It’s somewhat entertaining, but you don’t really get a lot out of it. You get a good number of Andre likes to drink stories (and can drink a ton!), and how he can kind of be a jerk (usually because of the drinking), and how his body is in pain, and how he can’t really have a family life because he’s always traveling for his career.  But… how is his story that different from nearly all of the other wresters of his era, or the wrestlers that followed him? The only real difference seems to be that he was tall. 
1777	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I am old enough to remember Andre but not enough to really remember much about his career or life. I can remember seeing old clips of Wresltemania III, which was my first introduction to Andre and I can remember thinking, ""people can really get that big?"" I could never forget him as Fezzik in The Princess Bride exclaiming, ""does anybody want a peanut?!"".  I picked this book up at the library without hesitation. I've always wanted to know a bit more about his life and career but never had the time for sitting down with a traditional biography. I love the illustrations and the way his story his told. Short jumps in time with the help of the illustrations highlights certain points in his life that help the reader to understand that Andre never had it easy and was often misunderstood. This is a great book to look back on a legend's life."
1778	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is the story of one of the most iconic wrestlers in the last hundred years, a man named Andre The Giant. A professional wrestler from France who was able to go from the farm to headlining Madison Square Garden. Though he may of not always been the happiest of giants, with his constant drinking and being in the center of everyone's attention. He was able to enjoy the times on the roads with his friends, meet many new people & was able to travel the world and back again.  This graphic novel though was a compilation of story's complied over the years from friends and coworkers. It did portray Andre is every light, even the darker parts with his alcoholism. I would recommend this to a true fan of wrestling and to those who'd like a quick and light background of everyone's favorite Frenchman.
1779	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This comic book memoir takes readers into the formative years of one of professional wrestling's biggest superstars, through the height of his fame, and behind the scenes to showcase the immense pain he was in due to his medical condition: acromegaly.  There's so much to like about this book. The play-by-play of wrestling matches, the presentation that glorifies its subject yet presents an honesty that allows readers to see their hero behave as a jerk. I read this book in one sitting, it's that engrossing. Wrestling fans will appreciate it the most, though Princess Bride fans will enjoy it too.  Source notes, a glossary, and a bibliography round out the back matter.  Recommended for sports fans, pop culture fiends, and anyone who enjoys a good memoir.
1780	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I really liked this graphic novel biography of Andre the Giant, a figure I only know of from his role in The Princess Bride. The graphic novel format worked well in telling the story of Andre's surreal and sort of tragic life-- the reader gets a picture of Andre through vignettes of his pro-wrestling career, seeing the ups and downs of how he dealt with the fame and the medical condition that caused his remarkable stature. I came away from this book feeling that I'd learned about a subject about which I'd known very little, and also with the feeling of wanting to learn more about him and the whole pro-wrestling scene during the 70s and 80s-- and I love it when a book piques my interest in something and makes me want to learn more. I recommend this!
1781	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A collection of second and third hand stories about Andre. It appears not much actual research was done for this project. I was somewhat disappointed. I was expecting more of an overview of his life. I don't know how much is known of his birth and childhood, so who knows if that was available. Would have liked more tales from the point of view of Andre himself, again I don't know what might be out there. Unfortunately the opportunity to get a first hand account is gone. Overall it is a nice, short recap of a few years of his life through some well told anecdotes that have been told time and again, but for those of us who watched him wrestle on tv while growing up, and remember his movies, it was fun to remember those stories and read a couple new ones. 
1782	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Much like the sparse line-work, the story is no-frills and told ""straight,"" a collection of snapshots of Andre's life and matches to provide some insight into the Giant's life and legend. Unlike the descriptions of Andre in Cary Elwe's memoir As You Wish, Andre isn't always portrayed as the Gentle Giant who inspired Billy Crystal's movie. There are more shades of gray about Andre's drinking, relationships with others, and daughter whom he didn't raise. I wish there were more insight into Andre's thoughts, feelings, and motivations, but I can also see how Box Brown made an artistic decision, and not a bad one, to lay the story out for readers to come to their own answer to the question that Andre knew that people asked about him, ""What kind of man is he?"""
1783	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	André the Giant: Life and Legend by Box Brown First Second, 2014 Graphic Novel: Biography 240 pages Recommended for high school and adult readers  Hitting high on the best seller list for graphic novels right now is this big guy. I admit that my most familiar memory of André is his part in The Princess Bride, not as his wrestling career. But as I read I certainly learned a lot about wrestling and about who André the Giant was. It's not all pretty, and this glimpse into André's life should not make its way into young readers' hands.  There is plenty of rough language and adult content, which is why I'm giving my copy away! I'd rather this book make its way into some high school classroom library, or into the hands of an adult that is interested in reading about the giant!
1784	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	First of all, I don't recommend reading this on Kindle Paperwhite. It was hard to see and hard to turn pages. Maybe a Kindle Fire is better (I haven't used one), but I don't know why they even made a Kindle version if it's going to be like this.  As for the book, it was fine. The art was very simple but effective. The story was a little sparse. I felt like the author was doing his best to put something together using limited resources. To paraphrase Donald Rumsfeld, you write a book with the sources you have, not the sources you want. So, better than nothing I suppose. If this were a series of panels Kate Beaton threw up on her blog, I'd be thrilled. But you expect a bit more from a book. Superfans only.
1785	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A decidedly adult graphic novel biography, this book is a collection of short comics about Andre's life in chronological order.  The different stories have little material little linking them together, and this choppiness combined with the simple (but charming) art style meant I was often startled by the raunchier aspects of Andre's exploits.  After taking the time to digest the book, I think that the rawness of the text, combined with the cartoonish style of the art, works for the piece because of the book's focus on his adult life. It presents Andre as a complicated man who stumbled in to celebrity due to his size, and who stayed at the top due to the rare combination of charm and hardwork.  An interesting work about a fascinating man.
1786	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A decidedly adult graphic novel biography, this book is a collection of short comics about Andre's life in chronological order.  The different stories have little material little linking them together, and this choppiness combined with the simple (but charming) art style meant I was often startled by the raunchier aspects of Andre's exploits.  After taking the time to digest the book, I think that the rawness of the text, combined with the cartoonish style of the art, works for the piece because of the book's focus on his adult life. It presents Andre as a complicated man who stumbled in to celebrity due to his size, and who stayed at the top due to the rare combination of charm and hardwork.  An interesting work about a fascinating man.  -- Jennifer, Highland Branch
1787	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is a graphic novel biography of Andre the Giant, famous wrestler and personality. I enjoyed the book, but felt it was not all that I was hoping for, and that could be just because everyone has been talking about how awesome it was, so my expectations were very high. I just felt like it could have had a bit more substance, like, it felt very brief and rather more of a list of facts. The artwork was fine, very simple black and white drawings....and I know that finding facts about someone who was very private and is no longer with us is hard; but it just left me wishing for more insight into him as a person than just a brief look at his basic info (i.e. birthdate, death date, life accomplishments, health issues)
1789	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"This book just didn't have enough to say.  In the introduction, the author describes his ""research"": Using his subjective ""best judgment"" to weed out which stories about Andre are probably true, and which are probably not.  The reader is left with a collection of ""probably trues"" that don't have anything to say. There's no risk, or flavor to it all. Instead, I'm looking at neat illustrations of Andre's notable TV interviews, which I could find online, and a few stray assertions that he was an asshole sometimes.  In short, I didn't discover anything I didn't already know. Which is saying a lot, since I am the least sportsy person ever.  Buy this title from Powell's Books."
1790	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I loved Brown's treatment of the life story of this sports icon. I grew up in the 1970s and Andre was my favourite wrestler. The local TV station had Saturday morning wrestling and the marquee match was always an Andre the Giant one. These were the days of Jimmy superfly Snuka, Harley Race, Bruno Samartino, the Iron Shiek, and Rowdy Roddy Piper but my love and passion came from my obsession with the giant. I've followed Box Brown's career as a publisher ( Retrofit) and as an artist and in my opinion this is his greatest creation. It was thrilling to support Box's Spring Line of Retrofit books on Kickstarter and I was able to pledge for the entire back catalogue including his Number One and Number Two books. Andre the Giant is probably his best stuff.
1791	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Whoa! Box Brown you did a book for a major publisher! How did this happen! It is probably not my favorite work of yours (and I am having a hard time following your artistic trajectory lately) but I love your illustration style (bubbly, but ugly, but also sweet) so much that that's ok. Also, clearly you are super into this story, into pro-wrestling, and really feel for Andre...which is not the easiest thing in the world today. That concern and fascination transfers to the reader enough that the book works well, even for someone who has zero interest in the semi-tragic tales of pro wrestling stars. So, good on you bro. Please reveal more super-niche interests of yours to the world!
1792	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I was excited to read this book, as a rabid fan of WWF wrestling in the 80s and early 90s, and a frequent viewer of The Princess Bride. I think this book provides an excellent balance between graphics and text, unlike the Luther graphic novel I recently read, which I thought was quite text heavy. Even though details were undoubtedly left out, I was impressed by the book's overall breadth, covering Andre's life from beginning to end.  As someone who primarily writes creative nonfiction and loves graphic novels and comics, I appreciate seeing people's lives represented in graphic novels. I hope the tradition continues and lasts for many years to come.
1793	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Who doesn't love The Princess Bride? And who doesn't have a soft spot for Andre, that sweet, kindly giant, when he rhymes, ""Does anybody want a peanut"" and when he catches the lovely Princess? If you feel as I do, you'll want to read Box Brown's fascinating biography of Andre the Giant: Life and Legend.  Brown's biography comes from someone who grew up with a great love for professional wrestling, and I think that background is essential for Andre's biographer since most of Andre's life was devoted to that art, sport, and/or spectacle, depending on your perspective. I, personal... Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi..."
1794	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"While I have no interest in wrestling, there are certain characters from the wrestling world whose fame extends beyond the ring. One of these is the 7 and a foot tall Andre the Giant, best known to me as Fezzik from the movie The Princess Bride. This is an interesting look at his life and is obviously wee researched, but the ""story"" does seem to be snapshots rather than a complete picture and, after talking to some wrestling fans I know about this, there is a lot more information publicly known that could have been used to enhance the details in this book. A good read but could possibly have been a bit better."
1795	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The life of Andre the Giants is truly the stuff of legends. He grew up near Samuel Beckett, spent his youth in Paris, and then proceeded to professionally wrestle around the world, ending his great career after an acting stint in the Princess Bride. This graphic novel, is interesting, but it does fail to reach far beneath the surface of who Andre the Giant was. While the author states that he wants to present an honest portrayal of Andre's life, he does little to look at motivation or what made Andre tick. The book ends up depicting amusing vignette's from Andre's life and wrestling, but shows the reader little else. 
1796	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I got this as a present for my son but thought I would read it first.  I was saddened by this, as Andre was told her would only live to forty because of his condition. Instead of a more positive attitude, he took to drinking extensively to dull that knowing doom. We all are going to die, but most of us do not worry quite that much.  I was curious about some aspects of his life and will follow up on them to learn more.  This is a bunch of anecdotes strung together in a loosely strung biographical form, following him from young age to death. Nothing is very involved but it tells us somewhat of his life.  Overall, I came away sad rather than uplifted.
1797	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	It’s a graphic novel! It’s a biography of Andre the Giant!  For anyone who watched him wrestle on television, this graphic novel is a neat look into the life of Andre Roussimof. Made fun of because of his size, Andre struck gold with the world of professional wrestling. Wrestling was an activity and profession that celebrated and rewarded him for his size.  There’s not much to this biography, but I felt that I learned a little bit about the gentle giant who won so many hearts on television and in film (The Princess Bride). I do think that the graphic novel is an excellent medium for a biography of this sort. 
1798	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Well, this was disappointing. The very best thing about this book may be the cover. Box Brown's comic proved to be less a biography and more a perfunctory grocery list of events in the life of Andre the Giant. The scenes were often short and populated with people who were not identified, leading me to rely heavily on the notes section to make sense of what was happening. The portrait of Andre the Giant painted in this comic was superficial, based on anecdotes from others that may or may not be true. I never got a good sense of his character or his interior life. Overall, it's a boring depiction of a man who was anything but.
1799	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I've always been a huge fan of Andre the Giant, ever since I discovered The Princess Bride as a child. This graphic novel pieces together Andre's life and it comes apparent pretty quickly that it wasn't all rosy. Andre was ridiculed as a child, and when he finally made it to the doctor as an adult he was told that with his condition he wouldn't live past 40. Despite all the odds, he made a career in wrestling and gained popularity all over the world. He may not have been a saint, but he was a lost soul, looking for acceptance and a pain free life. Fantastic, albeit depressing, graphic novel. A must read for wrestling fans, or anyone who ever admired Andre the giant.
1800	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre the Giant...I remember when Hulk Hogan body slammed him during Wrestlemania. I remember his endearing role in The Princess Bride. Larger than life, this giant man suffered much, yet made an impact on the world.  I picked this book up because a graphic novel biography of one of the most famous wrestlers ever is too much to not pick up and read.  I finished the book because Andre's story was interesting. There was so much more to his story than what you saw on the screen.  I would recommend this to Kearaun. I think he would like the graphic format of the book, but also that is about a wrestler.
1801	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A graphic novel biography of one of pro-wrestling’s greatest stars. Beginning with his early life in France to his rise as a pro-wrestler, this warts-and-all biography is a fascinating and in-depth look at a complicated man.  The cover is great - dark red and yellow with a drawing of Andre on the cover. The text is limited and the black and white drawings are excellent and, while simple, still moving. It’s a very quick read and not a dull moment. However, I do wonder if teens will be interested in a wrestling figure from so long ago. I’d love to hear some feedback and their thoughts on the book.
1802	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	My friend bought this for me as a Christmas gift, knowing that I was a huge wrestling fan. Fandom aside, this is a book that would move anyone. Wrestling is simply a backdrop for this emotional, heartbreaking tale. He starts as a laughing, large boy, and keeps growing...and growing. The fame comes, and the knowledge that he will live a life of physical agony and premature death. Then came the drinking, the women, and the lingering shadow of death. Andre was a giant, but though he seemed to be, he was never a monster. He was a tragic hero, doomed to be laughed at and feared, fated for pain. He was larger than life, even larger than legend.
1803	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I stumbled upon this book sitting out on a shelf at the library and when I skimmed it and saw it was a graphic novel, I thought, eh, why not. I was pleasantly surprised and read this in one sitting. It's a quick biography of Andre the Giant, from his start as a child all the way to his untimely death. Man, did that guy drink a lot. I feel sad for him, he was dealt the shitty end of the stick, and all he wanted to do was chill at his farm and play cards. Only one or two pages dealt with The Princess Bride, even though that's what many people know him for today, but overall it was a very quick and interesting read. I did like Box Brown's writing (font) and illustrations as well.
1805	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I admit that I didn't look too closely at the description, I was excited to see an Andre the Giant biography. I'm a big fan of his, the gentle giant that he was. I didn't notice that it was a comic biography. I was a bit disappointed that it wasn't a full biography, but that was my fault for not paying closer attention to the description.  The book was an enjoyable collection of vignettes from Andre's life and career. I learned some things that I didn't know about him, and if you don't know anything about wrestling you might learn something about the industry.
1806	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I love how this graphic novel didn't have to spell everything out about Andre the Giant - the pictures and dialogue said enough. The bulk of this biography was culled from various interviews the author obtained - whether they were radio, television, or print. He was able to tell the life story of the larger-than-life wrestler in a way that led the reader to empathize, vilify, and feel sorry for Andre all at once. I was saddened at the end of the story. He had much more to give but not enough time to give it.
1807	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"3.5 Stars. This biography, expressed in cartoon style, was a nice, quick read. Though I would prefer a much more detailed bio on Andre The Giant, this was a nice way to pay tribute AND share his story in a unique way. From early wrestling career, through the ""Hulk Hogan"" years (which I remember as a kid) and the filming of The Princess Bride, this book takes the life of a gentle man known for his size, and shows it in a way that people of all ages could relate to.  ""Anybody want a peanut?"" Fezzik, The Princess Bride (LOL Love his role in that movie....)  Wish you were still around, big guy..."
1808	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I very much enjoy this style of drawing. Andre's life outside the ring was the most interesting part. I found the blow-by-blow descriptions of some of the fights a little dull but I understand that it shows how wrestling can be an art form and takes true talent, not just height and body mass. I'm a big fan of The Princess Bride so that segment was delightful. I didn't really know about the relationship between Andre and The Hulk but that just shows how much of a non-fan I am of wrestling. He was an interesting man, limited but interesting. 
1809	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A refreshing take in the genre of graphic biographies. Reading about Andre in this medium gives the unique advantage of constant visual reminder that he is larger than life, and Box Brown's art syncs perfectly with the tightrope Andre walks between comedy and tragedy. On a personal note, it was lovely for Box Brown to resurface in my life after a massive archive binge of Bellen! years ago. Apparently he's been editing comics anthologies as well as producing new work. I'm looking forward to investigating.
1810	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Well researched, wonderfully drawn biography with heart. This GN isn't a comprehensive retelling of Andre's life, but an attempt to capture the spirit of the man by retelling some incidents from his life - some well known, some less well known. The bulk are of course drawn from Andre's wrestling career, though Brown does an excellent job of elucidating the business for non-wrestling fans: but there are snippets from Andre's early life (including his youthful encounter with Samuel Beckett) and from the set of the Princess Bride too. Recommended.
1811	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I'm not a fan of Andre the Giant, or of wrestling. Instead, I'm a fan of graphic novels, especially those published by First Second. This one left me lacking, however. The artwork is suitable, and the portrayals of real people do look like their counterparts. I'm a fan of brighter, more colorful art.  I assume the story follows Andre's life fairly accurately; the back of the book bulges with source notes. Some parts jumped around a bit, or left me hanging and wondering what was happening. Mostly, though, it was okay. I suspect Andre's fans will like this much more than I did.
1812	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Box Brown's remarkable manga-influenced sequential art biography of the wrestling legend lies somewhere at the intersection of the graphic novel as pioneered by Art Spiegelman, the confessional comics of Harvey Pekar and the illustrated reportage of Joe Sacco. Okay, that sounds as grandiose as a wrestling promo, but there's truth in it. What we have here is a larger-than-life story that could be told in text alone, but it's a tale that really benefits from being seen sketched out on the page to be believed - even if much of it's a work in the end.
1813	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Andre the Giant was a legend. Alas, this graphic novel is not.  I really had to remember hard to see the story and humor the book had. I was piecing together a biography I read of Andre the Giant years ago, As you wish stories on Andre the Giant, and childhood memories of wrestling. Beside this bit about his daughter, I didn't learn much from this book or enjoy it much either.  Jokingly I picked up this book to ""read"" to my 3 month year old daughter. Within a few pages she excused herself to wet her diaper. She is showing potential to have pretty good taste in books."
1814	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I've always loved reading and watching stuff on Andre the Giant. From the moment I saw his larger than life performance on Wrestlemania III on VHS, I was fascinated with the larger than life legend. This biography, told in the form of sequential art, does a lot to pay homage to both the man and the myth, and exposes some of the tragic life that he lived. Overall I really enjoyed this telling. The art isn't my style, but that wasn't really the point of it all. A guy who loved the story of this giant, told it in a way that was unique and personal to him, and so for that I appreciate it. 
1815	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	i always thought andre the giant seemed like a nice guy (okay, this is based entirely on his part in the princess bride) but this actually made him seem like an asshole. the author tried to disclaimer in the intro saying he had a tough life (which I'm sure is true) but i feel like if they wanted to make him seem sympathetic they should have included more instances of his strugglez and less examples of him being a jerk. but, eh, maybe that's the truth.  also, weirdly made me want to watch professional wrestling? never a desire I've had before.
1816	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This was beautifully done graphic novel that gave a lot of insight into the life of Andre the Giant. The artwork was fantastic. The way his story was told fit the art perfectly. What I would've loved would be more information - more facts, figures, and stories. It was a great read, but short and some of the stories were sparse and seemed to only have one perspective - that's what you get when you read a non-fiction graphic novel, I guess. This book was very well-done and very interesting. A beautiful homage to a fascinating man.
1817	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I ran into this at the library and thought it would be perfect for the readathon, and it really was. Andre's life story seemed well fitted for the graphic novel format, since so much of his life was oversized. I found the professional wrestling stuff interesting, appreciated the insights into his health problems and the way he was treated by strangers, but my favorite part was the brief section on the filming of The Princess Bride. His co-stars and the director each recall an anecdote about Andre. It makes me think I should probably get around to reading Cary Elwes's book after all. 
1818	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Using a Animated comic strip look to detail Andre the Giants life events from the beginning to the very end. Talks about Andres Struggles, drinking issues, career and putting Hulk Hogan over for the Body Slam and win at Wrestle-mania. It was a nice book to read about Andre, since Andre was indeed a top draw. Talks about how everyone agree to make Andre the Giant the unstoppable force in pro wrestling. A must read for anyone. 
1819	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I’ve been wanting to read this since it’s release. I am a huge fan of Andre the Giant, and was excited when I heard this existed. Admittedly, most of the information in the book was stuff I already knew from my lifelong obsession with pro wrestling, but it’s a quick read that was entertaining. The artwork is okay, but not excellent. Still, if you’re a fan of Andre, or pro wrestling, you’d likely enjoy this quick read. 
1820	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	This is a very informative biography about Andre's short life. I loved it! The illustrations are great and stylized.. I'm not a wrestling fan but I enjoyed learning about wrestling. I loved the bittersweet tone of the story. It was a pageturner for me I wanted to know how the story would end. I will definitely recommend to others and make our library owns copies.
1821	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Workmanlike. Lots of details on wrestling-- I guess if you're into professional wrestling, add a star. All time best profile of Andre the Giant remains this one, from Modern Drunkard magazine: http://www.drunkard.com/issues/10_06/10_06_andre_giant.html 
1822	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	The format of this book is the most interesting thing about it. It is a collection of stories about Andre that are told through the use of comic strips. Being a wrestling fan, I had heard most of these legends, but it was nice to have to visualize the missing pieces to the story.  I received this book through a Goodreads giveaway.
1823	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I really enjoyed this graphic novel bio of Andre the Giant. I'm a child of the eighties, so even though I wasn't a huge wrestling fan, I was an Andre fan. This is pretty unflinching - the content is graphic and the language is pretty course. For that reason, it's not a good fit for my junior high kids, but I can see it being a huge hit with older reluctant readers. 
1824	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A little disappointing, actually. What's here is fine, but as a whole, the story feels incomplete. The anecdotal style of the narrative is not a bad thing in and of itself, but they never came together in a satisfying way for me. I don't feel like I know anything about Andre the Giant I hadn't already read in the Wikipedia entry.
1825	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	was very informative on showing how pro wresting is faked. otherwise very little about andre's life story. except showng what a jerk he seemed to the world (mainly to fans and women) how much of a very neglectful father he was. got it from my library and i am glad did not waste any money on this book.
1826	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Still don't have any interest in professional wrestling, but Andre the Giant was a fascinating individual and the peculiar string of questionable stories he and people who knew or met him make for a great read. Box Brown's art, like many an indie darling, makes good use of line and gesture. Simple and straightforward.
1827	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	As a huge wrestling fan I was really looking forward to this OGN. Sadly, I never felt like this book was much more than just a collection of vignettes of Andre's life. What is here is solid, but it just felt very static. I really enjoyed Brown's cartooning of the wrestler's from yesteryear, but I just didn't get much out of this. 
1828	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	After the amazing GN bios of Jeffrey Dahmer and John Lewis, my expectations are pretty high, and this one is just OK. The information about his life is very surface-level. There is possibly more information about professional wrestling in general than Andre, which is interesting, but I wanted to know more about his disease and personal life.
1829	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Illustration and dialogue are the primary tools of a graphic novelist, which doesn't give a minimalist artist writing about Andre the Giant a lot of source material. Yet reading this graphic novel is like watching a fine, sad, beautiful French film. About a giant wrestler who drinks, fights, and insults people. And who secretly aches, inside and out. 
1830	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I gave this to my husband for his birthday yesterday and I basically read it in one sitting. Though I am not a wrestling fan who doesn't love Andre? This is a fascinating story with intriguing insights into the world of wrestling. Expertly told as a graphic novel, it really works since wrestling is so visual and Andre was so big. It's also quite a sad story.
1831	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I found out about this book from the weekly reviews of books published by the webcomic ""Unshelved"" (http://www.unshelved.com/bookclub/). As this was a graphic novel it did not have the ability to get into too much depth, but the parts that it did cover flowed smoothly and told the story of a man I was interested in (mainly because I was intrigued by the wrestler who acted in the Princess Bride)."
1832	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	While the book moves a little quickly to really let the reader feel the full weight of Andre's life, Box Brown does a wonderful job marrying the real-life tall tales associated with the big man and his own beautiful illustrative style.  This is a must read for comics fans, wrestling fans, and fans of life in general.
1833	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	An introduction to selected moments from the life and career of Andre culled from the stories his friends tell. Wrestling fans will enjoy the behind-the-scenes look at Andre's career. Box Brown's introduction and wrestling analysis will be illuminating to readers who grew up when kayfabe was still strictly enforced. 
1834	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I enjoyed this book, as I think I'd enjoy just about every book about a literally larger-than-life figure like Andre the Giant. As I read, I realized that while I usually appreciate the graphic novel format, I wanted more details in this case. I like Box Brown's storytelling approach and I'll look for more of his work.
1835	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"The book describes itself as ""the first substantive biography"" of Andre the Giant, but I don't think that's quite right. It's not a real comprehensive/critical biography by any stretch. It's a series of vignettes taken from throughout Andre's life. It's a very enjoyable read and gives a good sense of how hard it was to be Andre the Giant. The art is also quite good. "
1836	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	At this point, Andre the Giant stories are almost a sub-genre of wrestling shoot interviews. The man was a legend in his own time. Box Brown, in his minimalist cartooning and expertly paced narrative, has woven all of the Andre the Giant stories into a tapestry describing Andre’s very human life and tragedy. Its beautiful and brilliant, and I can’t recommend it more.
1837	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	My expectations were quite high, but failed once I started viewing.  Cartoon-ish graphics were crudely drawn and the story had many blank areas that could (and should) had been filled with more Andre stories from the people who had something to do with Mr. Roussimoff during his life and career.  Sad that this wasn't better.
1838	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I am a fan of professional wrestling, but what I really loved Andre from was The Princess Bride. I thought this was an interesting concept - a graphic novel biography that doesn't shy away from the controversial, less family-friendly aspects of his life. The art did not really appeal to me, but overall, I thought it was well done. 
1839	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Learned a lot about Andre the Giant, but definitely worked more as a string of anecdotes than a cohesive story. There's also little effort to giving the dude a complicated portrayal beyond his more well-known qualities (drinker, big dude, people make fun of him for being large, he kicks ass as a wrestler, he was a generally nice guy). END
1840	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I liked the excerpt I read of this in Best American Comics, and after rewatching The Princess Bride recently I was inspired to check out Box Brown's full graphic novel about Andre the Giant and wrestling. It's fun and easy to follow and slightly educational, which is pretty much what I'm looking for when reading a graphic novel. 
1841	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I have posted my review of this on my blog, The Itinerant Librarian. Click on the link below.  Link to review.
1842	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	I learned a lot about Andre the Giant that I had no idea about before - and they reference the making of the Princess Bride! Woot! I wanted a little bit more narrative here, but it reads as a fascinating look at a series of events that shaped Andre's life.
1843	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Andre The Giant is a work several years in the making for Brown. Using bits and pieces of actual interviews and biographical literature, Brown does, what I still can’t believe, could be accomplished in a graphic.  Read my full review here: http://mitng.org/2014/03/05/andre-the...
1844	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	beautiful story of a tragically short life. the author is very open about the possibility that accounts of Andre's life have been greatly exaggerated and there's no way to know some of it actually happened, but it's a great read.
1845	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	Interesting account of not only Andre, but also professional wrestling. I would have liked to see more of the man in this account -- not a fan of wrestling at all -- but perhaps Andre's life was solely wrestling. 
1846	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I know very little about ""Professional"" wrestling and my only knowledge of the Giant is movies and posters. A biography intrigued me.  I read this in one day. It offered some fun art and a cool insight into the world of this man."
1847	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"Fascinating read! I read this in two sessions, in my last session I really couldn't put it down. It was interesting to read about Andre's origins and also about wrestling before the modern era of the fans and the wrestlers all being in on the ""secret."" "
1848	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A quick read that reminds me of what an amazing man Andre was. There are some times (his altercations with Bad News Brown and Blackjack Mulligan, his interactions with some fans) where he doesn't come across as the nicest of guys, but what he did and what he suffered is truly remarkable.
1850	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	More episodic than straight narrative, but a good look at the life of a legend (fairly balanced between his good qualities and lesser ones) with a lot of insight into his career and pro wrestling as a whole.
1851	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	While I really enjoyed the black and white illustration style and the way this story was told, I found myself glossing over a lot of the wrestling details. Still, I didn't really know anything about Andre the Giant except for his role in Princess Bride, so it was a solid introduction to his life.
1852	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	A very introductory biography about a legendary superstar who faced personal demons every step of the way.  Basic story that only scratches the surface of the wrestler's complex challenges. But, if they kept writing about other WWF legends, I would probably keep checking them out.
1853	Andre_the_Giant:_Life_and_Legend	"I wanted to like it more than I did. The story is interesting and the graphic novel format was fun, but I sorta felt ""eh"" about it. I'd actually like to know more about his life and who he really was. On the other hand, my total commitment to read it was less than an hour."
1854	The_Imitation_Game	"""Sometimes it is the very people who no one imagines anything of who do the things no one can imagine.""     Jim Ottaviani's The Imitation Game is the fascinating story of Alan Turing's amazing intellect, awkward and eccentric behavior, his homosexuality and his tragic end. I haven't seen the film, but I felt like this graphic novel gave me lots of pieces about Turing, from early pivotal friendsships to his role in breaking the enigma code in WWII to his trial for homosexuality. I thought it was a bit slow-moving at times; however, that's possibly because so much was covered so it was sometimes difficult to have the depth one wanted. Still, I enjoyed this book and came away with a greater appreciation for Turing and his achievements.  The quote above came from the film and is possibly in the book too, but I couldn't find it. And I liked it so there you go!        "
1856	The_Imitation_Game	I was down in Melbourne over the Easter weekend for the International Comedy Festival (good times) and I visited the large Dymocks on Collins St. Not too bad of a store. But Melbourne is lacking in really good book stores - amazing for a city so sophisticated and nice.  Anyway, I stumbled across this book - the same author as the amazing 'Feynman' graphic novel!  I read it on the plane back to Sydney today. It's rather good, both story and art. I'm going to compare it to Andrew Hodges written biography which I adored and the movie adaptation. It's not as good as Andrew Hodges book, but this is a different form. But there were different facts and stories here. There is extra stuff for those fans. But the Hodges biography was steeped in math. I felt it was probably inaccessible to most people. But this book is very accessible. You could give it to a nerdy teen to enjoy.  The only thing I worry about is that I followed all the details and characters so well because I had encountered them before. Maybe a new reader with no knowledge of Turing may get a bit lost.  But I certainly enjoyed it. Jim Ottaviano did it again. I really need to keep on top of his upcoming projects. Surprises are good, but the thought of missing out is a little frightening.
1857	The_Imitation_Game	3.5 for the last few pages. Great story, but I thought the execution could have been smoother, and the entire narrative framed better. Didn't understand the point of the interview set-up, and it felt like I had to fill in too many story-related blanks on my own. Glad to see Alan Turing's story get more play, though. What happened to him was a tragedy.
1858	The_Imitation_Game	I’ve read quite a bit about Alan Turing and Bletchley Park and codebreakers during WW2, and have watched a number of related documentaries, as well as The Imitation Game movie starring Benedict Cumberbatch as Turing. So going into this book I wondered if it might just be more of the same for me. But I was quite impressed.  I found that this format and the techniques that the author and illustrator use helped me to understand all the computer science and mathematics and code-breaking methods better than I ever have. And I definitely have a better grip on what Turing called The Imitation Game, namesake of both this graphic novel and the 2014 film.  The various narrators employed - relatives, friends, lovers, work colleagues - add layers to Turing’s biography, both personal and professional elements. The narrators are depicted as ghosts from his past, telling parts of Turing's story - from childhood to death - to an interviewer, each from their own potentially unreliable perspectives. Or sharing their own particular memories and insights. Turing's mother is a chief narrator, and his brother John gives brief input. Narrators from Turing's time at Bletchley Park include his mathematician friend Joan Clarke (to whom he was briefly engaged), Dilly Knox, Hugh Alexander and others. Winston Churchill puts in appearance, and in one particular scene, Turing has a bit of an imaginary debate with pioneering programmer Lady Ada Lovelace.  The novel attempts to balance the story of Turing's life as a gay man who paid a horrible price for his sexuality with other aspects of his being and his contributions to the sciences, well beyond even his incredible work during his WWII-time service. And the author is successful in making the reader appreciate the remarkable scope of Turing's work.  I like the way Jim Ottaviani has provided a bibliography and references for the source of information applied to various frames of illustration. This helped address many of the questions that arose as I read. I also appreciated the Author's Note.  And I appreciate this book as an object - the dimensions, solidity, the cover design and textures, the quality of the paper and the binding, the illustrated endpapers. It appeals visually and in its tactile qualities. Well done, Abrams ComicArts and designer Pam Notarantonio! I think the quality of so many graphic books may push quality book design and production in other genres as well. Here's hoping.  In fact, this may be the first time that I have found a graphic novel as satisfying as a regular novel. And this is, I think, the first time that I have given 5 stars to something along the lines of a graphic novel. This publication is growing in me a real appreciation for graphic books. So, thanks Jim and Leland!
1860	The_Imitation_Game	"This book is amazing. Imagine coming up with the Universal machine, figuring out that inputs in an algorithm can be reduced to actions represented by strings of zeroes and ones. It's absolutely brilliant. Turing had the opportunity to talk ideas with some of the greatest thinkers of our time. I cannot even imagine learning philosophy and logic from Wittgenstein.   No one should have cared that Turing was a little odd, and definitely gay. Who cares? He had a first-rate brilliant mind.  The Turing test (to see if a computer can be made to think, using artificial intelligence) was originally called ""the imitation game,"" which is why it is the title of the book. It was a natural progression out of his understanding of advanced mathematics, logic, and proofs.  During WWII, Turing did extremely important work for the British government working on decryption. The German Enigma was giving them fits. Turing had all kinds of ideas, but no real authority to put all of them into action, just humming energetic ability.  I find the whole secret operation at Bletchley to be endlessly fascinating. So little machinery at that time existed which could be used to break ciphers. As it turns out, it was the perfunctory nature of the German culture that helped. They repeated too many of the same phrases, making it easier to break the code. But still, it was the machine that Turing came up with that the codebreakers relied on that made the real difference. And when the Germans moved from using three rotors to four, that's when it got ridiculously impossible. They needed to get their hands on an enigma.   And with great fortune, they finally did get their hands on a four rotor Enigma machine from a Uboat. All this before the US even entered the war.  Turing should be more of a hero, but like all great thinkers, others tried to take credit for his work. And others couldn't see past their own bigotry.  I think that Turing's love of running was his way of dealing with the world, one which frustrated him, and one that never accepted him as he was, but took what it could use from him.   The punishment meted out to known homosexuals back then was primitive and horrific. The world failed him. And we lost a great man too soon."
1861	The_Imitation_Game	How could such an interesting story be presented in such a boring manner? 
1862	The_Imitation_Game	Graphic novel of the life of Alan Turing – which I picked up on a visit to Bletchley Park. Unlike the rather proposterous film of the same name, this book gives as far as I can tell, an accurate and well researched rendition of Turing’s life. Also, and I think appropriately, it is dominated more by Turing’s work on computability (on the former it explains with some success how he proved that the an algorithm to solve the stopping problem could not be found) than on decoding (although there many of the basic ideas and major developments are well outlined). The story is told by ways of various characters (Turing’s mother, his lover, his brother, Joan Clarke) being interviewed – I think these discussions are meant to link to the Imitation Game (aka Turing Test) itself but I was unable to fully see how that conceit added to the story.
1864	The_Imitation_Game	Review to come.  This unbiased rating is based upon a complimentary copy provided by the publisher.
1865	The_Imitation_Game	I got this book on Netgalley in exchange for a review.  This biographical graphic novel is one of my favorite reads ever. It describes the life of Alan Turing, the father of computer science. I can’t tell exactly how accurate this is, but it’s fascinating and heartbreaking to read.  The story is told from a few different points of view. It can be a bit confusing because it mixes Alan Turing’s POV with POVs of people who knew him. I wanted the story to go into more detail about what exactly Turing did during WW2, but that would have probably taken too much space and also wouldn’t have been very easy to explain. I felt that the writers weren’t sure exactly how to deal with Turing’s sexuality; it’s obviously an important part of his life so it had to be in the story, but it shouldn’t come across as the most important so there aren’t too many details.  I think the drawing style fits the story, meaning it’s not very cheerful and colorful. I liked the way Turing’s ideas and thoughts were drawn – it’s not easy to show those in a graphic novel in such an interesting way.
1868	The_Imitation_Game	[I received a copy of this book through NetGalley, in exchange for an honest review.]  A good general biography of Alan Turing. Not going into many details, as this wouldn't be really convenient in graphic novel form anyway, but comprehensive enough to encompass the most important aspects of his work.  Sometimes this comics reminded me of “Breaking the Code”—I guess that was because of the different narrators, and possibly also the interrogator's questions hinting at Turing's homosexuality, although the focus was less on that here than it was in the play. Interestingly, those “hints” were most often dismissed by the people telling about Turing's life: his mother (apparently naively) understanding this was about girls, Clarke and others basically shrugging it off (“he wasn't the only one, and we didn't care anyway because we were in Bletchley Park to work, not to worry about such things”), a colleague wondering why the hell Alan even broached the subject yet being his friend and working with him pretty fine all the same, etc. This aspect of Turing's life is always difficult to deal with, IMHO: it shouldn't matter so much, what matters is hius work, but since it was illegal in the UK at the time, it's just not something one could overlook, as it impacted his life nonetheless.  Noteworthy is also how his work in Bletchley Park had to be downplayed, and how it had been the same for all the cryptanalystes, scientists, “wrens” and other people involved. Since it was classified information, none were allowed to tell, even after World War II was over, what kind of work exactly they had done. Some were finally allowed to reveal it decades later, after the classified bit was lifted, while others died without never having opened their mouths about it. I felt this was important, as Turing may have been more respected by his peers if he had been able to list his achievements in that regard (and the trial seems to reflect that, with those against him looking at him in belittling ways, as if he had just done “some work” and not been part of something bigger, something much more important—as if all that defined him was that “gross misconduct with another man”, and the rest wasn't worth being mentioned).  The format is a bit strange, in that, as mentioned above, the story follows Alan's voice as well as that of another person (his mother, his friends...) and an interrogator. It is disconcerting at first, however the use of different colours (Alan's voice in yellow, his mother's in pink, for instance) allows to differenciate between them. Obviously enough, this format follows that of the Imitation Game itself, where a man A has to convince an interrogator that he's not a man, while a woman B has to convince the same interrogator A is lying and she's telling the truth. (I say obviously, because I just can't see how such a narrative set of voices would've been chosen at random.)  The drawing style, unfortunatey, didn't do much for me, and often detracted from what the book was showing, and from some of the ways it went about exploring what may have been Turing's thoughts: wandering in his own mind, following a trail of paper leading to other great minds like Ada Lovelace and Charles Babbage, all the while with Turing's colleagues and friends trying to follow him, follow the trail, but clearly never managing to really catch up... I found it to be an interesting representation of what may otherwise have been tedious. (There's some science in there, too, and it can easily become confusing to someone who's not overly familiat with concepts behind Turing's works.)  Drawing style not withstanding, this was a pretty interesting book, and a good introduction to Turing's life. There are plenty of references at the end for those who'd like to read more (including Hodges's “Alan Turing: The Enigma”). 4/5 stars.
1869	The_Imitation_Game	Last year I read an experimental novel about Alan Turing, Murmur, which won the Wellcome Book Prize. I also encountered a fictional future Turing (who did not undergo chemical castration and kill himself) in Machines Like Me by Ian McEwan. I liked getting a tour back through Turing’s life, from boyhood to his mysterious death, through this graphic novel, and the idea of using testimony from people who knew him (his mother, co-workers from Bletchley, etc.) as the narration was clever, but the book focuses way too much on mathematics and technology.
1870	The_Imitation_Game	Really well done. Not super uplifting. I learned things. Annnnnd not all of those things were things I wanted to know.  History is always so sad, you guys.  Most of the technical stuff went over my head. But it was also really fascinating even when I couldn't understand it. I loved the way all the different voices told the story, with Alan himself coming in too.
1871	The_Imitation_Game	This graphic novel managed to do more with Turing's tragic and short life than the limpid movie with the same name attempted.
1872	The_Imitation_Game	The Imitation Game film (2014) left me in tears, and so when I saw this title, I was very much interested in reading it!  And let me tell you something: this did not disappoint me at all! I don't read graphic novels very often, but I really enjoyed my reading experience with The Imitation Game. I would highly recommend this to people in search of nonfiction, historical accounts told in a wonderfully creative, visual way.  Disclosure: I received a copy of The Imitation Game from the publisher (via NetGalley) in exchange for an honest review.  Actual rating: 4 stars * Find more of my bookish shenanigans in my natural habitat!
1873	The_Imitation_Game	A wasted genius. #3wordbookreview  I wonder what else Alan Turing would have contributed to the world if he had been given the chance...  A satisfying graphic novel about Turing's life. The shifts in time were a little confusing at times, but overall an enjoyable read. Even when you know how it ends :(
1875	The_Imitation_Game	"TODO full review: ! Overall: read this if you get the chance! +++ Excellent topic - Alan Mathison Turing is a key figure in the history of computing*, and a classic example of persecution against homosexuals**. (The British Queen and Prime Minister apologized, the former in 2013 and the latter in 2009, so about 60 years later...) +++ High quality story, capturing many of the things we know about Alan Turing. The new aspects of his life, some of which we are still discovering, should not detract from this. (Historians can see part of all of their writings turned upside down by a new finding, and people who visualize existing historical accounts suffer from this even more acutely.) +++ The main character, Alan Turing (later, ""Prof""), is captured very well. The authors catch not only the main developing milestones, but also the evolving mannerisms and quirks. Very well done! (And a dramatic, sad evolution of the main character.) ++ The other characters are captured very well, and their feelings about Alan Turing are not only recorded with surprising detail given the space dedicated to this endeavor, but also motivated with (visual) finesse. ++ The graphics are in general very good. We get to see many of the key pieces of equipment of the era, particularly the code-breaking machines at the Bletchley Park during WW2 and the first computers built at the University of Manchester just after the war. The colors are muted, but fitting the topic. The lettering is diverse and good at expressing who and in which way talks. I also liked how the change of camera angle (point-of-view) is smooth, rather than abused as it often happens in modern comics (possibly because the software for making them has become so accommodating of tracing 3d scenes). +/- The attempts to visualize Turing's conceptual work is experimental but not very successful. We see depictions of his work on logic, calculus + decidability (decision and especially halting) problem, and especially the immitation game (later, subject to a film, but based on the literary work Alan Turing: The Enigma by Andrew Hodges), and cryptography. There are better depictions in the comics world, for example, in Logicomix. Also, some of the descriptions seem inaccurate, especially those regarding cryptography."
1876	The_Imitation_Game	"The Imitation Game is quite complicated. I would have lost the thread of the story if I hadn't already watched the movie. There are three main sections: pre-war, Turing's war work, then post war. Anyone who already has knowledge about the Enigma machine might enjoy the middle section.  Some of the complication, I suspect, is purposeful. Alan Turing was a mathematical genius who went off on tangents in his conversations. But there were many narrators in the story - it's presented as an interview, and I didn't always track with the changes. Also, his post war work shifted about a lot. I had no concept of how many years we were covering or what he may have accomplished.  A major focus of the third section is Turing's open homosexuality. He apparently lost his career opportunities after he was tried and convicted of ""gross indecency."" He was completely alone even though his colleagues all had known of his homosexuality and still worked well with him. Different theories about his death are discussed in the author's notes.  I would recommend the movie over the book - a rare event for this reader."
1877	The_Imitation_Game	Jim Ottaviani writes books that I love, even if the math's way above my head. He has a way of making you appreciate something you can't quite grasp that I love bumping into while I'm reading. I remember the same feeling reading Feynman. I'm sure the same thing will be true of Hawking when I get my hands on it.  The Imitation Game tells the story of Alan Turing, a mathematician, codebreaker, runner and gay man in a time that being so was illegal. Ottaviani depicts Turing as a man loved, but not always understood by those around him. In fact, the whole book is Alan Turing's interrogation of figures from his past. It's an attempt to see if he was ever truly known. At other times it feels like an attempt to understand what was behind the layers of forced, necessary or accidental secrecy that surrounded Turing.  It's a book for people interested in World War 2, math(s), computers, brilliant scientists or fascinating people. I'm glad for having read something about Alan Turin.
1878	The_Imitation_Game	It uses some clever narrative techniques, interviewing deceased people for their takes on Turing's life. Otherwise, it didn't carry a lot of spark for me to enjoy, in the graphics or the story. Still, it was a fairly fast read. And I was glad to learn some things about the protagonist and his codebreaking machines that I didn't get from the film of the same name.  MPA ratings: PG-13 for thematic material
1879	The_Imitation_Game	Good story, but I really disliked the art.
1880	The_Imitation_Game	A little hard to follow at times, but still a fascinating look at one of the tragic geniuses of the 20th century.
1881	The_Imitation_Game	Turing's story is worthy of five stars. But this particular telling of his story didn't do it for me. More technical details than I expected and I didn't like how the multiple narrators was done.
1883	The_Imitation_Game	I’ll try to avoid comparisons with the movie of the same name, but I can’t help but point out that this is much, much better. The book contains a much more complete and compassionate view of Turing’s character than the stereotypically-cold-genius character of the movie.  As for the art, it wasn’t the most beautiful art I’ve seen in a graphic novel, but that’s to be expected for a non-fiction story with real people. The prettiest art was in the more imaginative scenes where he was explaining his theories - those were my favorite parts of the book, between the art, the concise explanations of complicated concepts, and the cameo by Ada Lovelace.  This was a beautiful book that I loved reading. The fact that I cried multiple times over a graphic novel about math might be saying something about me, but it’s probably just because this was a great book.
1884	The_Imitation_Game	I read an earlier version of this book when it was available online. This was before the movie on Alan Turing came out, The Imitation Game, and I kept looking to see if the book would be published, to compliment the movie, but it was not.  Since this was a re-read, although some things, apparently were altered, I knew the story, but had forgotten bits of it. The movie mostly focused on the war years, while this graphic novel watches him go from young boyhood through to his death.  The story opens with Turing running around the house where he lives with his mother, playing a game of chess, where he makes a move, runs around the house, and if the person he is playing with hasn't made a move, he has to get up and run. It is an interesting introduction to the way that Alan thinks. The book is told in several voices. Sometimes it is Alan speaking, sometimes it is people he interacted with, such as his mother, and sometimes it is both Alan and his mother speaking, for example.  What keeps being pressed on, which is important, though we might not think so in these more liberal times, is that Alan was gay. The interviewer, is never seen, but keeps asking each person, as they talk about Alan, if they knew, and what they thought, and if it was important. Unfortunately, it was and wasn't. It wasn't, because he was a genius, and that was what was important, really, in the end. But, also in the end, it was important, because like, Oscar Wilde before him, it was illegal to be a homosexual in the UK. Would Turing be alive today if he had no been prosecuted and forced to take drugs to chemically castrate him? Well Jo Walton seemed to think in her alternative history book My Real Children when she had one of her characters run into Turing at a gay rights meeting.  Other than the math, and the calculations, I found I was still quite engaged in the story. There are bits where he goes on and on about things, which are probably what he did in real life, but I would have to skip over, as I don't really have that kind of math mind.  If you liked the movie, and want to know more about Alan Turing, this is an excellent book for that. It is very approachable, well illustrated, and very well researched. (with an Bibliography as well as notes on chapter headings and what they mean).  The author also wrote Primates and Feynman, also worth picking up.  Thanks to NetGalley for supplying this book for an honest review.
1885	The_Imitation_Game	I do like that Ottaviani makes graphic memoirs and mostly he's actually good at them. The Imitation Game isn't bad per se, but the structure is such a mess. Perhaps the other problem is that I've seen the movie and this felt so thin compared to that. The Imitation Game follows one of the greatest minds, Alan Turing, who encrypted Enigma and was the prominent mind behind modern computing altogether. The comic follows his life, his work and then the death he supposedly chose himself. It's such a tragedy really, to be damned because of homosexuality. The comic interpretation is more positive than I thought it would be. In a way it felt weird how everyone seemed to be OK with Alan's sexual orientation. We didn't get to see inside anyone's head and this made the comic feel distant. The flow of time felt hard to grasp and Alan's ideas were never really explained or presented well. The whole Enigma thing was over before it even started and we never got to see the war even the least. Structurally Ottaviani highlighted the happenings that weren't the core for the story, but more like something that just happened without any meaning.  The art in itself is OK, but the watercoloring along with the heavy line work makes the comic look smudgy. The colors are a weird combination of dark tones and pastel colors, which in a way hurts the eyes. A finer lines would've lightened the panels a lot. It was a good choice to differentiate the interviews and Turing's life. It gives posture to the comic and makes the flow better. Sadly so the plot aka Turing's life occurrences are a mess and the amazing mind he has doesn't shine through this.
1886	The_Imitation_Game	Read this review and more on my blog.  I received a free copy of The Imitation Game for my honest opinion.  If you go into reading The Imitation Game and expect it to be like the movie that came out in 2014, you will be disappointed. Although this graphic novel does share similar aspects to the movie, such as Turing decoding the Nazi code during WW2, The Imitation Game focuses more on how Alan Turing became the brilliant mind he was, and what happened to him after the end of WW2.  I really enjoyed The Imitation Game, this graphic novel as well as the movie. As someone who comes from a family who's has worked extensively in the computer industry, and is personally considering a career in computer programming, i did find it easier to understand some of the more technical terminology used; although most people will find this go straight over their head.  The only thing about this graphic novel that I did not enjoy is use of interviewing Turing's friends and family about him. At times it got confusing as to what was going on, but apart from that, this graphic novel was extremely enjoyable.  I would recommend The Imitation Game: Alan Turing Decoded (Graphic Novel) to anyone who enjoyed The Imitation Game movie, as well as people who work or are interested in the computer industury.
1887	The_Imitation_Game	The Entscheidungs Problem is a fascinating one to be sure!  But I can't fathom it could have an answer.  Parts of the book were a little slow. Other parts were fascinating. It was well-written, but even that didn't prevent it from being a little hard to follow in spots. It did however do a decent job in presenting Alan Turing as a troubled genius. With a difficult life. It's a shame. It's a shame for all people who aren't treated well because they're different. No matter how that difference presents itself.  I really wanted to follow the math in this book. I don't know if it was just over my head as presented or not.  I wish the book would have spent more time on the Imitation Game itself. That I think was most interesting - can a machine imitate a human being enough to be indistinguishable?  Though the philosophy toward the end of the book was rather interesting.  But the trial at the end of the book was horrifying. Sometimes it seems like we've come so far.  Sometimes it doesn't.  Thanks to NetGalley and ABRAMS for a copy in return for an honest review.
1888	The_Imitation_Game	Absolutely fascinating read about a man I knew next to nothing about. Ottaviani uses voice supremely well, and Purvis' art is colorful and engaging. Although there were a couple of Turing's ideas I had trouble wrapping my head around, I never felt lost within the story itself. The end felt a little abrupt and was bereft of dialogue. Given the chatty nature of the rest of the book, I suspect this was a stylistic choice rather an an editorial one. As much as I enjoyed it, however, I don't know that there's much kid appeal until late high school at the earliest.
1889	The_Imitation_Game	I was hoping this book would be an excellent companion of sorts to the recent film, but it pales in comparison. Like most of Ottaviani's biographies of scientists, this volume is packed with facts but fails to really bring the subject alive for me. And the conceit of trying to frame the narration of the book as an actual imitation game seems like a clever idea but really does nothing but force the narrative into a format that continually distracts.
1890	The_Imitation_Game	I'm not sure how you could make a book about a man as brilliant as Alan Turing this unbearably boring but Ottaviani manages to do it. Not only are the mathematics not well explained for the average reader but the story telling is extremely dull and I left the experience not only being supremely disappointed but also not fully grasping why I should care about what Turing accomplished in his life, and that is a shame.
1891	The_Imitation_Game	THE MOVIE. YOU GUYS NEED TO GIVE IT A TRY
1893	The_Imitation_Game	Words cannot express the genuine love I have for this 🥹 The ending was perfect, tears were shed Although some of the references I only got because of my own research 
1894	The_Imitation_Game	THERE MAY BE SPOILERS AHEAD SO BE WARNED <3 Bought this as an early Birthday present, my Birthday is in a week haha Here are my thoughts following my binge read :) This was such a quick though certainly not light hearted read! Did I expect such turmoil and anguish from a graphic novel regarding the genius who reduced the length of the Second World War and helped create the computer? Well, no. Was this thought provoking though out of my comfort zone? Definitely. It certainly wasn't what I thought it would be about having no prior knowledge of Turing. At first I thought it was about the discovery of a calculator but as I kept reading, at an ever increasing pace, it became out of hand and I grew in further awe of the guy with each turn of the page. A shame that he had to die so prematurely. His skills at decoding are uncanny.  It is told from the perspective of many people who knew him, in the present, and are depicted using black and white images if I got that right. The past is in full colour and depicts Alan doing what he's best at, solving problems dealing with logic. It became a 4 star read when the concept of machines having independent thought came into play. I love how with every part, the opening page is easier to decipher as Turing got closer to a breakthrough. Being a huge Matrix fan, the concept of machines having a soul or an identity because of independent thinking is intriguing. The psychology and philosophy that one can go through analysing the moral issues is never ending.  Being homosexual at the time was frowned upon and ultimately having to be treated for it after allegations made him suicidal. To be fair, the exact way he died isn't yet known and there are many theories but the most probable is cyanide poisoning. He was a runner, a genius and ultimately a good person who had one intention in mind, to save future generations from having to go to war, hope that won't be the case now with Russian and Ukraine at each other's throats... What appealed to me hugely was that Turing did date a woman at one point but it didn't last, maybe he was doing it just for show? The place where the enigma code was solved was destroyed and all evidence burned to the ground or buried beneath it. The art style is magnificent and so much attention is paid to detail!  The image below, Agent Coulson, is that you? I don't remember this part in Endgame hahaha If you're here through instagram, please do let me know. If you're not, follow me there, I have my own page called thepoetrycorner2021. Thank you!  
1895	The_Imitation_Game	"This book offers an enigmatic (ahem, pun intended) look at Alan Turing's life, his studies, his work to decode the German messages during WWII, and his post-war efforts in digital computing and artificial intelligence, up until his death.  The story captures much of Mr. Turing's quirky genius as well as his inability to fit into 'normal' society. ""He wasn't unhappy, or antisocial - more simply, not sociable"" (p. 12)  The format of the book somewhat mirrors the game Mr. Turing invented, an 'imitation game' to test an electronic brain to see if it can think on its own, hence the book's title.  But I must admit that there were several places in the story where I was a bit lost. Some had to do with the technical aspects of his work, but many times I was confused about who was who in the frames, who was the narrator, why the story had flipped from a chronological retelling of his life to a fictional interview with his dead mother or other individual, etc.  I'm sure, to some extent, the author intended the reader to be somewhat confused, in an attempt to show how Mr. Turing's genius could not be separate from his odd thought processes and behavior. I'm sure that he would have been given a diagnosis on the autism spectrum, had it existed in his time.  I appreciate the author's exposure of the discrimination and unfair conviction he faced because he was a homosexual, as well as depicting his colleagues' acceptance of who he was throughout his life.  I learned quite a bit about Mr. Turing's life and this period of history, but I didn't love the book. I started it several times and abandoned it before I reached the half-way point because it was a very long story, filled with technical and mathematical verbiage that I didn't understand well, and I just couldn't really get into the story.  I finally started again yesterday, determined to push through and finish the book quickly. I'm glad I did.  But I do wish that the author had included an index and a timeline of his life along with the additional author's note, bibliography, and notes and references at the end of the book.  I have not seen the film, but I think I could appreciate it more, now that I've read this book.  interesting quote:  ""Nobody ever suspected what went on inside those walls. And we never said a word."" (p. 150)"
1896	The_Imitation_Game	  📚 Hello Book Friends! I was very intrigued to know more about Allan Turing and his work in mathematics and computer science. The graphics were outstanding, and the story was well presented. Unfortunately, the over detailed account of his work was just too much for me. I think the author wanted to communicate Mr. Turing’s genius, but this ended up confusing me. I wanted to know about his theories in layman’s terms and more about his personal life. The author’s notes were thought-provoking. I have a hard time with the way homosexuals were treated in those days and how we are often not further in recognising homosexuality as a normal part of life today. I am looking forward to the day that this will no longer matter and that everyone will be treated equally.  #bookstadog #poodles #poodlestagram #poodlesofinstagram #furbabies #dogsofinstagram #bookstagram #dogsandbooks #bookishlife #bookishlove #bookstagrammer #books #booklover #bookish #bookaholic #reading #readersofinstagram #instaread #ilovebooks #bookishcanadians #canadianbookstagram #bookreviewer #bookcommunity #bibliophile #theimitationgame #jimottaviani #lelandpurvis #bookreview
1897	The_Imitation_Game	"The The Imitation Game was a fun introductory reading to the work of Alan Turing. The different voices that try to construct his persona are able to give a well rounded view of his desires and fears. It was very refreshing to see his figure beyond his talents as a mathematician.  It is fascinating to get familiar with the theoretical questions he was trying to answer regarding computers and their ability to mimic the human learning process and reconsider those questions from our current context. His thoughts seem more relevant than ever right now.  The only reason why I think this book is not a ""5 stars"" is the fact that in its attempt to cover a wide range of subjects in Turing's life, it feels a bit ""half way"" on all of them. I felt it could have provided a deeper understanding into his work, or at least into his conflicted mind."
1898	The_Imitation_Game	I would have liked more, particularly as the subtitle includes the term “Decoded.” Oh well, clearly I was expecting too much. Still, this is a fascinating read and I truly enjoyed it. Interesting to see the little cameos by the likes of Albert Einstein, Ian Fleming and Winston Churchill (always fun see how and if historical figures intersect). It’s also both gratifying to see the societal and cultural changes that have been made in the 40+ years, but it is also a reminder of just how little has changed and how much more needs to change. 
1899	The_Imitation_Game	A very well-written tale of Turing's life. The mathematical content is dealt with well, and the emotional decline towards the end is very sensitively written.  I think it's a very important story for people to learn about, for mathematical/computer history, and also to help people understand the broad social context of LGBT issues in the UK within recent years.  Also, I was very pleased to see my idol Hardy show up in Princeton! <3
1900	The_Imitation_Game	The Imitation Game is one of my favorite movies of all time and I believe Alan Turning is an incredible historical figure who deserves more recognition than he’s ever received.  This book was confusing as half the time I didn’t know who the text boxes were for. This was supposedly from the take of the deceased, but also and interviewer, but also Alan? Also, I know I don’t understand math and machines well, but this did NOT make it any easier to understand.
1901	The_Imitation_Game	A beautiful though, yes, (scientific and) brainy portrait of a man whose influence does not seem to be fully recognized or appreciated, despite his still growing and therefore difficult to measure contributions to the world.  And in that sense he is still a tragic victim, ~ like he was when he passed away. When he should have been celebrated as a hero!
1902	The_Imitation_Game	I wavered on the rating for this one. It’s probably more of a 2.5. I know the math is potentially confusing and hard to explain, but there were times I thought the story was too. I found the story fascinating though, especially the Wrens/Bletchley Park and the trial at the end. A good read for Pride Month anyway. 
1903	The_Imitation_Game	This is an illustrated biography covering the famous British mathematician Alan Turing's entire life. In my University years, I studied much of Turing's work so I was greatly interested to learn more about his tragic life. There is a fair bit of math in the book, but I would have liked a bit more because most of his important theorems can be expressed so elegantly.
1904	The_Imitation_Game	I jumped on this graphic novel because I loved the movie by the same name. Unfortunately, the timeframe covered by the movie (WW II) is only a part of Alan Turing’s overall story. The rest of his life was comparatively boring. This book downplays the war and the breaking of Enigma, essentially giving me less of what I wanted to see and more of what I didn’t.
1906	The_Imitation_Game	I'm going to assume it's because of my age but I didn't understand anything mathematical that came out of Turing's mouth. I kind of just glossed it over. 
1908	The_Imitation_Game	Graphic novel version of Alan Turing's history. 
1909	The_Imitation_Game	Sadly I found this a bit confusing and didn't like the art style that much.
1910	The_Imitation_Game	This is a wonderful book on Alan Turing. I recommend it to those who are curious about the origins of computing, as well as those who enjoy stories set in WWII England.
1911	The_Imitation_Game	Even after reading the massive biography by Andrew Hodges, and seeing the movie “The Imitation Game,” I am still eager to learn more about the life and work of Alan Turing. “The Imitation Game: Alan Turing Decoded” is a graphic novel (biography) somewhere between those two, and continues to tell his story in an entertaining and informative manner. This medium, too, is one I am growing very fond of, for its creativity and ease of presentation, in a series of frames like comics, its ability to demonstrate in ways that written text alone cannot. So, do we need more biographies of this man? Yes, and “The Imitation Game” is one of them.  One innovation in this presentation is that people who knew Alan appear to be interviewed, though by whom is not shown. More than any of these people is Alan’s mother, and in memories or flashbacks, we see the people relive their experiences, and Alan himself is the central narrator. At first, I wondered if some pages were missing, the sequence seemed jumpy, and, sketchy (pun intended). If you were not familiar with Turing, many allusions might not make sense, or come across as inside jokes (or similar). Some of the more technical ideas are given more explanation, which is not bad. Another trend is the dodging around his homosexuality, which is more openly discussed as the book goes along – an interesting technique, I like how that was done. Also, those who worked at Bletchley Park during World War II remain unable to speak of their work, which carries historical significance to Turing’s legacy.  Sara Turing, Alan’s mother, is inexplicably interrupted and asked to leave; then, one of the “computers” or “wrens” – women who operated the machines at Bletchley – is brought in, followed by Joan Clarke, Alan’s co-worker and one-time fiancé; Don Bayley at Henslope Park, where Turing went after his second trip to the U.S. and his departure from Bletchley – he was working on radio-transmitted voice decryption at that time; his friends, David Champernowne and Robin Gandy, visiting him at the University of Manchester, after the war; Arnold Murray, whom Alan took a romantic interest in, yet who may not have robbed Alan but blamed someone else he was seeing, the whole incidence leading to their arrest and Alan’s unjust punishment; and Alan’s brother John. Some people even appear as ghosts. Dear Professor Max Newman, one of Alan’s mentors and colleagues, was called in to the court as a character reference, as was chess champion and fellow code-breaker Hugh Alexander, but again, it was Alan’s mother more than anyone who had something to say. I have not read her biography of her son, but I would like to, to further complete the picture. With so many accounts coming forth, there are inconsistencies. For example, Sara Turing says Alan never returned to the U.S. after his time at Princeton, but during the war, he was a sort of ambassador, working with scientists at Bell Laboratories. Also, I don’t know if he wrote quite as many letters in these times as people felt he did (I could be wrong), and he did really like literature and theatre, especially works by George Bernard Shaw. The “Keep Calm and Carry On” signs in background are nice touch, but I thought those weren’t used at that time; however, the activity was off the record, so who knows (and I could be wrong again). But this book picks up on things that the long biography and the movie did not, and focuses on different people, such as Dilly Knox, and events like Winston Churchill’s visit to Bletchley, where Joan Clarke explained their whole operating process. For accented visual and auditory plays, the “bombe” machines are churning away, and generating heat too, such that the computers often worked in their underwear. This book then, like Alan himself, does have some humor.  One thing I find so fascinating, and elegant, about Turing is how the questions that burned inside him came to be part of all the work he pursued or took part in. “The Imitation Game” is such an appropriate title, a thread running through everything – and, Alan loved games, from chess to those he invented, described here like his other experiments. In the author’s note is a fair suggestion to maybe not read this as “pure and objective history,” but it is a fair representation from many perspectives. This is a well-researched and well-crafted book that is a welcome addition to our understanding of Alan Turing. He had a beautiful mind, a beautiful life; so brilliant, so human, and, so tragic and triumphant.  Note: this e-book was provided through Net Galley. For more reviews, follow my blog at http://matt-stats.blogspot.com/
1912	The_Imitation_Game	Originally reviewed at Minnesota Reads.  I recently watched the movie “The Imitation Game,” and it’s a great movie, even if it’s not very accurate. For instance, did Alan Turing name his decoding computer Christopher after a childhood friend he crushed on? Nope. Did Joan enter Bletchley Park after solving Turing’s crossword puzzle? Another big nope. How about Turing proposing to Joan so she could stay at Bletchley? No again. They were engaged, sure, but that’s not why or how it happened. And did Turing know the Soviet spy at Bletchley? Another no-no. It’s still a great movie, but there’s a lot of Hollywood shine added to it.  I say all of this to tell you that if you want to know the true story of Turing and his computer (named Bombe), then you might want to start with the graphic nonfiction The Imitation Game: Alan Turing Decoded by Jim Ottaviani. It will give you the facts, but what it doesn’t give you as well as the movie is the heart.  In the graphic nonfiction, Ottaviani tells Turing’s story in an interesting way: through interviews by those around him and stories showing him from when he was young up to his death. I found the unique way the interviews with his mother, Joan, and friends are juxtaposed with graphic depictions of Turing. The interviewees are shown talking about Turing and then the story moves into panels featuring Turing at work. I loved the clever way this was structured.  And even though I found the way the story was structured to be interesting, there are definite bumpy parts to it. At times the story moved quickly from one thing to the next without a good transition. It was a little jarring and occasionally confusing to figure out where we were and what was happening. It wasn’t hard to get back into the story, but it slowed me down a bit.  But my biggest issue with this story is its lack of heart. One reason I probably feel this way is because the movie was filled with heart, but this story is mostly about the facts and I wasn’t drawn into like I had hoped. I think I wanted more sadness from his mother or more compassion from Joan or more interactions with Turing being vulnerable with anyone. He appears very stoic and removed from the world around him. Maybe this was his personality, but if that’s the case, it didn’t come across strongly enough for me to buy into his reactions in certain situations, or rather his lack of reactions.  The Imitation Game graphic nonfiction is a good introduction to the true story of Alan Turing, but don’t let it be the only thing you use to get to know the man.
1913	The_Imitation_Game	When I found The Imitation Game, by Jim Ottaviani on NetGalley I was immediately interested in requesting it. I had not seen the movie, but I thought this was a little-known piece of history that I should learn about. This is a graphic novel and not a novelization of the movie. The fact that this is a graphic novel gave me pause as I usually find them lacking. I just like to have more written information when I read a book.  Needless to say, I was very surprised and happy as I read this book. It does a brilliant job of explaining who Alan Turing was and what he accomplished in his short life.  What I liked:  Learning about the Enigma machine: This book did a wonderful job of taking a very complicated (and possibly boring) subject and making it easy to understand. This is where the medium of a graphic novel was a tremendous benefit for this book. The artist made great use of images to convey how the technology worked. It was also was able to show some of the complicated mathematics and make them accessible to non math wizards.   The Story Format: I liked the storytelling device of interviews used in the book. We are mainly seeing an interview with Alan's mother and are able to see parts of his childhood and years as a student to see what experiences shaped him. I thought this was very clever.  What I was mixed about:  The artwork: While the artist did do an amazing job of showing us what the Enigma machine was and how the mathematics worked, I wouldn't say the art was eye-popping. This is not a super-hero type book, so there is little opportunity for flashy drawings and such. But I would have liked perhaps a little more color. As I write this, it occurs to me that maybe the artist deliberately had a washed out color scheme to reflect England during WWII? But looking at the cover, which was so bright with color, I was expecting more pop to the artwork.  What I didn't like:  The Book Format: I think this would be a book that one should read in physical format, rather than digital. I found that the wording was very small so I had to increase the magnification on my Adobe reader. This meant I couldn't see the whole page all at once. There were parts of the visuals where the reader needs to see the entire page at once in order to get the full effect of the drawings. Since I needed to make the wording larger, I did not get some of the visual benefits.  Overall, I really enjoyed this book. It makes me want to learn more about Alan Turing, and maybe even see the movie.
1914	The_Imitation_Game	"More like a 3.5, but grading up because I feel like nonfiction graphic novels have to work so much harder to succeed, and this one was complex and interesting and heartbreaking all in one. Alan Turing is kind of my historical homosexual man-crush, and this book did a spectacular job of presenting him in all his complexity--not just a misunderstood eccentric genius, but a real person. It made it clear that ""eccentric genius"" was practically compulsory to work at Bletchley Park, and in relative terms, Turing was no more weird than anyone else.  A couple things that really stood out to me--Turing was a hero, and a man of upstanding character, and when he went to trial, there were a great many character witnesses in his favor, but of the nature of the work they did during the war (and thus, the circumstances under which they knew Turing) forbade them from expanding upon the merits of his character, because if they had admitted any of it, it would have been treason. Think about that for a second. The man was a national hero and literally no one could talk about what made him so, or risk their own lives. It's mind-blowing. Also, without graphic detail, the humiliating effects of the chemical castration that Turing underwent to avoid prison were clearly laid out. His voice was always pitched a bit high, but the estrogen injections made it even higher. Additionally, he developed gynecomastia. The fact that the details are there so subtly in this book makes it even more chilling--really drives home the point of his suffering and untimely end. For me, that's where the wow factor comes in on this book.  Last year, I attempted to read an 800-page Turing biography and failed spectacularly--right book, wrong time. This shortened, graphic version made me want to try that again. Maybe I will, after I finish Chernow's Hamilton biography."
1915	The_Imitation_Game	One underlying theme to extract from this historical story is that exceptional intellect and socially strange behavior are somehow intertwined. Alan Turing was clearly a mathematical genius, a gifted athlete and an eccentric. His contributions to decoding Nazi communications during WWII were invaluable to the Crown. His visionary insights into the modern concept of digital computing were equally important. Turing's strangeness is often presented humorously in the form of esoteric conversations between he and his mother. Much like telling jokes to one's dog, they don't understand the punchline but do appreciate the effort. Everyone around Turing appreciated his genius and was attracted to it. On the other hand, they were simultaneously angered or repelled by his uncompromising strangeness. The book is presented in a graphic or storyboard format, wonderfully illustrated by Leland Purvis. As such the detailed and highly expressive sequential picture frames replace the need for almost any descriptive text. As a result the book, composed almost entirely of dialog and interviews with his mother and his professional colleagues, evolves as a very quick and enjoyable read. His prosecution for homosexuality and subsequent descent into depression and his eventual demise illustrate a somber historical commentary on the effects of bias and social injustice. In the end, this was an enlightening introduction to one of the great minds of the twentieth century and easily worth a 2-3 day commitment.
1917	The_Imitation_Game	I really liked this book. The artwork was well done, the book was well researched, and the story was very intriguing. This isn't just a book about math or logic. This is a book about World War II history, breaking the German Enigma machines, and the gender bias in British Army. This book even has the first computers! That's how intriguing Turing's life really is, it involves so much world history.  Yes, there are long(ish) segments where Turing talks through his ideas on logic, but they are written in a natural language that makes a lot more sense to a layman than a logic book. What's funny to me is that the artwork for these streams of consciousness, it often shows Turing moving on ahead while his acquaintances are left behind, having problems keeping up with him. Considering how few people seemed to understand him, it makes sense in the moment and overall.  This is not just a book for mathematicians or logicians. This is a good read for people interested in cryptography, World War II, LGBT history, or even just real life drama. The art style is appropriate for the story and the dialogue is easy to read.
1918	The_Imitation_Game	I was thrilled to find this one the shelf at my local library while browsing their graphic novel selection. Graphic novel? Check. HISTORICAL graphic novel? Double check!  Well written, very well documented, and and enjoyable (albeit somber) read. I have to admit, it was slightly confusing every time the POV changed to a different friend/coworker/relative of Turing's, with rarely a clear cut difference or explanation between time periods or locations. My only complaint would be the author's consistent hints and comments alluding to Turing's homosexuality. Instead of letting it flow naturally through the author's writing of Turing's character, dialogue, or mannerisms, he continually drops awkward hints in his quasi-interview style of chapters, always alluding to it without ever saying anything flat out until the end. It became THE overarching narrative of the entire graphic novel, instead of the astounding mathematical code-breaking genius that was Alan Turing.
1920	The_Imitation_Game	"Excellent biography of a brilliant scientist/logician. I gained insight into both the workings of Bletchley Park decoders, and what their silence regarding their war efforts cost them. I particularly liked the presentation of information from multiple perspectives. Friends, colleagues, family, all present some information about Turing but through their particular filter of how they knew him - for example the voice of his mother refuses to acknowledge his homosexuality until almost the very end, a voice of a colleague refers to Turing's eccentric habits, the voice of a lover considers most of Turing's work ""rubbish"". Questions are left unanswered, especially at the end, and shows some of the scholarship required of historians - sorting through the letters, facts, perceptions, and presenting the best understanding of what happened. Bibliography and notes at the end."
1921	The_Imitation_Game	"I just recently saw the movie of the same title, and so picked this up on a whim when I saw it at the library. It's very interesting, and covers more of Turing's life than the movie (which focused mainly on his work during WWII). The story is fascinating, and presents a good balance of character and emotion with the more technical aspects of Turing's work; I know very little of higher math and the workings of computers, but such is not required to keep up with the action. I liked the art style, but I did find the switching between narrators confusing at times, especially since it was never made clear who was asking the questions in the ""interview"" sections or what their purpose was, and also because Turing himself is sometimes a narrator, even though the others seem all to be narrating from a time after his death. Overall though it was definitely a worthwhile read."
1922	The_Imitation_Game	This wasn't the first graphic novel to make me cry, but it was probably the first one to make me cry and ALSO make me scratch my head and think so hard my head hurt. I am definitely not a math person, so the mathematical concepts were hard for me to follow. That said, as far as I can tell Ottaviani did a good job simplifying them enough for a layperson to follow. What an interesting, beautiful take on the brilliance of Alan Turing...can't wait to share it with students.
1924	The_Imitation_Game	This was a very good book detailing the life of Alan Turing, the brilliant mathematician and scientist that helped change the world.  This book was very detailed; it left nothing out, from his beginning to his end. If you love history and graphic novels, this is a good one for you.  Rating 5 out of 5 Read@Book
1925	The_Imitation_Game	Not based on the movie. This is a beautiful portrait of a misunderstood genius who helped to save so many lives. This graphic novel is smart, engaging, and filled with a lot more insight into Turing's life than the movie. Once you finish reading, you are going to want to start over and read it again.
1926	The_Imitation_Game	"This is my second graphic novel this year. It's like reading a movie. If you are a fan of Alan Turing or just like graphic novels, this is a great selection. Reminds me how much I enjoyed, ""The Bletchley Circle"" on PBS a couple of years ago. Will continue to search out historical fiction and nonfiction on the subject of the decoding of the enigma during WWII. "
1927	The_Imitation_Game	Good though not brilliant in both art and writing. A fine not-too-long introduction to Alan Turing's life and work. Some of the math went above my head, unsurprisingly, but there are only two sections with advanced math that I recall and they give an idea of how sophisticated Turing's thinking was. 
1928	The_Imitation_Game	Ottaviani manages to make me almost understand the math and science, but mostly he makes these scientists real. (Plus he's a neat guy--sat next to him at a publisher dinner once and found him as fascinating as his books.) A must for high school libraries.
1929	The_Imitation_Game	A fascinating, sympathetic graphic portrait of the English mathematician and scientist who, besides his remarkable groundbreaking accomplishments, was arrested, tried, convicted, and punished for being openly gay.
1930	The_Imitation_Game	This was my first graphic novel and I honestly am not a fan of the graphic novel style. However, I did enjoy all the new information I learned about Alan Turing. The second half was definitely better than the first. 
1931	The_Imitation_Game	"""Turing believes that machines can think. Turing lies with men. Therefore machines do not think.""  The story of Alan Turing, mathematical savant, founder of computer science, and essential crypotographer during World War II, is a a tragedy and an inspiration both. Arguably, his is a story has too much depth to be told through a graphic novel designed to appeal to young adults, so perhaps I have been more critical of The Imitation Game than is fair. I really enjoyed the portrayal of Turing's young. He was depicted as incredibly likeable, despite his shyness and exeptional talents. ""Undeniably not a 'normal' boy. Not the worse for that, but probably less happy."" His friendship with Christopher Morcomb, a school friend and possible first love who died unexpectedly in his teens was heart-breaking. ""So many things, and all great fun. And when thinking about ... when thinking got too much, I had running.""But I was unconvinced by so much of the narrative being told from the perspective of his mother who was an unremarkable and forgetful old woman who compared homosexuality to arthritis. This conservativism may well be historically accurate, but if so, why devote so much of the narrative to her perspective when there could have been more from Joan Clarke the female code-breaker? I think what really let the book down for me was that despite having countless full-colour illustrations to depict Turing's ideas, these were shown with great abstraction and obscurity. The description of the Turing Test or Imitiation Game was well-rendered, but most of the other mathematical ideas were shown too hastily, with too many distracting characters and asides in the panels. And other things were not explained in detail. For example, if I had not already read Simon Sigh's The Code Book, I would have no idea how the Enigma machine or the Turing's Bombes worked at all. Coming from a physiology background, I would have loved to read more about his contributions to mathematical biology which all still essential to computationalists today. His 1952 paper set about amazing work demonstrating that a system with as few as two molecules in an initial uniform state can self-generate and maintain differentiated patterns. This explains so much of developmental biology, from the optical dominance collumns in visual cortex to the formation of fingers and striped skin and fur. Still, I enjoyed the cameos from legendary 20th-century academics such as G.H. Hardy and Ludmig Wittgenstein with the awesome line. ""'i have no point.'"" The description of Turing's homosexuality was somewhat titilating in the way it was expressed in my opinion. ""No doubt I shall emerge from it all a different man, but quite who I've not found out."" His willingness to share this with other characters shortly after meeting them, and the usual stereotypical reactions of ""I always knew"", ""I thought he just hated women"" and ""that's gross"" reduced the depiction to soap-opera gossip. It didn't help that all Turing's relationships were displayed through images of him wandering about with another man in his boxer shorts and being slapped on the behind. Which is fine. But I don't feel like we have have enough hard evidence to speculate about the nature of Turing's relationships with other men, so it is somewhat insensitive to decide to portray these in as superficial, sex-oriented a manner as possible. Harsh but hair. Truth."
1932	The_Imitation_Game	Oh man, The Imitation Game put me in such a reading slump. I blame this book for stopping me from completing the Booktubeaton Reading Challenges. It isn't entirely its fault, I've just been busy, but I'm gonna give it one star anyway cause I'm mad.  I've seen many people in their reviews say that this book is more enjoyable if you see the movie first, but I'm sorry, I just don't roll that way. I always like to give the book a shot. I know, I know, I should have read the actual book, not the graphic one, but I can't read that 600 page book right now in my life. This one definitely didn't impress me into reading it either.  From the get go, I could tell that this was a mess of a book. Gosh, I sound so mean right now, but this book made me want to rip my hair out. It's told as a sort of interview, with scenes being interrupted while the interviewer asks people who knew Alan questions. I thought this would be unique until it got annoying and he only asked questions that added nothing to the story and just made it longer and more confusing.  Anyway. The book is separated into three sections. Pre-war, war, and post war. The first section was okay...it was mostly about his schooling and the boy he meets that he falls in love with and then he passes away. What was his name...oh yeah, Chris. Sorry, he was in the story for such a short time, I couldn't recall. My sister made it sound like he was a huge part of the story, but I guess not. I didn't get attached to their relationship or feel that pang in my chest when the news is dropped.  Then the war section hits and I wanted to just burn this book. So many words I didn't know. No glossary in the back to be found to ease my confusion. It was absolutely unbearable and I don't think I understood one thing. There were bombes and women were called wrens and there's a light underneath the letters. IT WAS THE WORST. I am not hear to read about things that only the smartest mathematicians can understand.  Post war I thought would be better for me because I heard from someone that it was mostly about his homosexuality and how that being exposed made his intelligence pointless to everyone because of the close mindedness of that time period. I don't think it was until the last 30 of so pages that they finally really delved into his gay nature. The ending was sad and all, but I honestly just wanted it to end so bad that I was flipping the picture pages as quick as possible.  I'm overall very disappointed. I don't think I'm ever going to give this one another chance because it left my head aching and me wanting to do anything other than read. I still have a lot of respect for Alan, but I don't think that this graphic novel does him justice. Maybe it would if he read it because he understands everything, but those who aren't geniuses are left with little to no information on his inventions.
1933	The_Imitation_Game	"This was an absorbing graphic novel. It is a rarity for me in this format—nonfiction. The subject of the biography, Alan Turing, was an inherently intriguing man. As a science fiction nerd I knew some things about him: he was English, he was a genius, he broke the Nazi's Enigma code, he created the test for artificial intelligence, and he was convicted of the ""crime"" of homosexuality in the 1950's. What I did not know, filled the rest of the book.  The book unfolds in an unusual way, alternating between Turing narrating his own life and ""interviews"" with people from his life. I'm not sure about these. They seem to interview people from different periods of his life. Who is questioning them is not made clear. I wonder if it was meant to be a representation of the imitation game that Turing himself created. Who is telling the truth? Who is lying? To what degree is it a lie or a different interpretation of events? Those being questioned are represented in shades of black and white. Turing, narrating the story, seems to be able to interact with them.  He was a genius. This was made clear. His grasp of mathematics was phenomenal. He made created of the foundational principles of modern computer science. He used his mathematical skills to decipher the Nazi's Enigma codes. This was fiendishly difficult to do. And he was in ""competition"" with another there who believed that people were superior to machines when it came to code breaking. The codebreaking project so impressed Winston Churchill that he instructed the military to provide them with whatever they asked for.  The topic of his homosexuality is handled tactfully. It was apparently an open secret during his time working for the government during World War II. He himself never seemed to understand that it was literally a crime. The laws have since changed, but that did no good for him. It was especially a tragic irony that his war service was still classified and his character witnesses could not tell the court what it was he had done for the country. Rather shabby treatment.  The math in the book was sometimes hard for me to follow. I am an English teacher, though, and used to math being hard to follow. I think I will be rereading this. I want to go back and try to better understand more of the details. Get to know Turing’s ideas better. Get to know Turing better.  I would definitely recommend this. It is well worth the reading."
1934	The_Imitation_Game	The Imitation Game: Alan Turing Decoded is a biographical graphic novel written by Jim Ottaviani and illustrated by Leland Purvis, which is a concise biography of Alan Turing – an English mathematician and computer scientist.  Alan Mathison Turing was an English mathematician, computer scientist, logician, cryptanalyst, philosopher and theoretical biologist. Turing was highly influential in the development of theoretical computer science, providing a formalisation of the concepts of algorithm and computation with the Turing machine, which can be considered a model of a general-purpose computer. Turing is widely considered to be the father of theoretical computer science and artificial intelligence.  The Imitation Game: Alan Turing Decoded is a powerful, sympathetic portrait of one of the 20th century's greatest minds in Alan Turing. However, this biographical graphic novel doesn't play the usual game of establishing its hero as the only smart person in the room. Here, the great brain of Bletchley Park was just one of many odd geniuses who helped crack the Nazis' seemingly unbreakable Enigma code machine.  The Imitation Game: Alan Turing Decoded is written and constructed rather well. Ottaviani threads the particulars of Turing's life, from school to top-secret wartime cryptography to postwar scandal rather well. However, the graphic novel's thought-provoking core is Turing's pursuit of his groundbreaking idea of the universal computer and using his imitation game to plumb the corners of his own personality. Purvis' sometimes-clunky art suggests a more juvenile volume than is actually delivered in this fully three-dimensional portrait of a man whose contributions to the modern world as well as the war was only recognized long after his tragic disgrace.  All in all, The Imitation Game: Alan Turing Decoded is a wonderful biographical graphic novel that portrayed the life of Alan Turing, a mathematician and computer science whose contribution are fully recognized after his death, because of his sexuality.
1935	The_Imitation_Game	Hm. This book is definitely a bit removed from my normal wheelhouse. I've been trying to stretch my graphic novel game. I read the one about Ada Lovelace (and Charles Babbage) which mentioned the big computer they were building (they get a shout out in this story. Holla!...well mainly Charles). I loved that story, I figured this one might be similar, right? History with some science. I mean World War II trying to decode the Nazi messages with a big computing machine. Sounds super awesome. But I think it was looking at the story through the lens of the future, and lots of narration. The author has this thing he does where he puts in gray the parts/interviews from the future and you can never fully tell what the purpose or goal is for these? Many of them are negative-ish and again the authors point isn't clear. I think he wants to try and give you a more well rounded look at Alan but it left me a bit confused and scattered, especially because they pop up frequently; sometimes to narrate changes in Alan's life. Also too much math; there is a scene where Alan and a friend? coworker? are wandering in a dream/thought/fantasy about the math computing machine. Alan is just talking then he says to this other person do you understand now? And the character says, 'um I think so.' I had no idea what was going on; I felt like the author was trying to make it that way. I get that Alan Turing was a smart guy and probably talked circles around people but it really turned me off the story. I'm not reading an autobiography by Turing, I'm reading a graphic novel about him. It was good. I'm not sorry I read it but I think there might be something better and more worth time to help someone understand Alan Turing. 
1936	The_Imitation_Game	Learning about Alan Turing in the format of graphic novel was such a pleasant experience. Though the abundance of numbers, algorithms, and discussion of theories had me zoning out most of the times, the life story of Alan Turing was sequenced nicely. What confused me a little was the narrator of the story. Who was he actually? Thankfully the author explained simply to us at the end of the book, in his author's note, the narrative's concept.  My following Turing's life had me pondering upon the true power of human brain. How he could think and elaborate on, and even made a paper out of complex topics like algorithms and Entscheidungsproblem was beyond me. Sure enough I couldn't follow his thoughts. His idea of machine and his concept of the imitation game were absolutely brilliant. Although I'm already aware of our brain power, I'm still at awe with this knowledge. Human brain is indeed extraordinary, especially when we have the ability to use it to its full capacity. It would be mad then. But one thing for sure, it made me more appreciative of this particular blessing bestowed on us by Him, the Almighty.  The third half of the graphic novel was sorrowful of all. After being prosecuted for his homosexuality, Turing no longer continued with his studies in machine. We could observe the downside effects it had on Turing specifically during the time he underwent a series of estrogen injections. The last page was heart-wrenching, showing Turing at the end of his life, his cause of death still in debate by the public. In this one, the author saw it as a suicide possibly by cyanide poisoning. Putting his homosexuality aside, Turing had contributed a lot not only during the war between UK and German, though his remarkable service was kept as a top secret from the public at that time, but also in today's modern computing. His idea of universal machine and artificial intelligence were exceptional. To be robbed of the recognition and respect he truly deserved because he was homosexual was unfair and depressing. But then, it happened at a different time. Sad but that's the truth of his fate.  All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed reading this one! Having watched the movie adaptation where Benedict Cumberbatch played the role, it's always a pleasure to know more about this genious man.
1937	The_Imitation_Game	I have been captivated by Alan Turing’s story ever since I saw Derek Jacobi perform it in Breaking the Code. The Imitation Game movie almost ruined it. But this book does not share much more than a subject and a title, it is much better.  I really like the Jim Ottaviani scientific biographies in graphic novel format ostensibly aimed at YA readers (Feynman, Hawking, and Primates: The Fearless Science of Jane Goodall, Dian Fossey, and Biruté Galdikas) and this one was no exception. This was probably a higher ratio of life to works than the others with Jim Ottaviani making less effort to explain Alan Turing’s major contributions and doing more to showcase his life. But it is quite a life.  I say ostensibly YA because all of the biographies are relatively sophisticated in a variety of ways: flashbacks, imaginary scenes, someone narrating interspersed with the stories, somewhat complicated themes that do not whitewash some of the more sordid personal details, and most importantly a lot of attempt to explain the science.
1938	The_Imitation_Game	I admit that until I saw the movie The Imitation Game, I really did not know much about Alan Turing. I probably would not have picked up this graphic biography if it were not for that movie. I suspect that teens may choose to read this based on watching the movie as well. The graphics, colors, and language sometimes offer metaphorical nuances that might be lost if the reader is not discerning.  I like how family, friends, and colleagues answer questions from an unseen interviewer. This puts the focus on their answers and opinions and draws a clear (albeit biased based on the person being interviewed) examination of Turing. Turing himself offers comments, but at first I found this confusing because the yellow employed for his comments is the same color used for the interviewer. I wonder if Turing is the interviewer for this story? I struggled with some of the mathematical concepts, but this did not prevent me from enjoying the story.  This is such a sad tale. Despite his brilliance, Turing's naivety and innocence lead to his downfall. Imagine having to keep his discovery secret long after his code breaking undoubtedly shortened WWII by years. His feat, if it had been revealed to the world, could have saved him from disgrace. (Be sure to read the author's note at the end.)
1939	The_Imitation_Game	Before I review this book, I feel it necessary to say a couple things first. Thing 1: There is a movie called the Imitation Game about Alan Turing. I have never seen it. I don't know how much of this book is like the movie. Thing 2: I love graphic biographies, they may be my favorite genre of book. With that being said, I disliked this book. I did not know anything about Alan Turing before reading this book and I feel like I only gained a little bit of knowledge about him. This book was very hard to follow. I realize that when different people were speaking, their speech bubbles were different colors. Everyone that was not Alan Turing was one color. Alan Turing was another color. And everyone in the current action of the book was in white. It was still confusing. Everyone spoke in first person. Some of the names were very similar to each other. There were a lot of different people and some of them kept coming back in and out of the narrative. I felt really dumb for not being able to keep up with it all. Despite that, I felt intrigued and I did want to know more about Alan Turing. He is very interesting. The graphics were great. I don't think I would recommend this book to others. 
1940	The_Imitation_Game	Absolutely amazing book! I've always been a fan of Turing, and being able to read his story in this format was just incredible. I have both the eBook and the hardcover, and while both are excellent, there is something beautiful about the book itself. It's printed on excellent quality paper, the inks are rich and just pretty to look at!   Of course, the story might have you in tears at the end. How a country could treat a man with such huge intelligence as Turing so badly after all he did to help in WWII... it still chokes me up to think about it. Being gay was still considered a crime after the war, and the fact that Turing died in the fashion he did (it's still unclear what the actual cause of death was, but it's very clear his mental health had deteriorated greatly) disturbs me. It's great that LGBTQ people have (mostly) the same rights as anyone else these days, but this was less than a century ago!  I hope you take in the message this book is trying to send. Go learn a little bit about computers and mathematics! It's all so incredible, and the basics are very easy to learn. Remember to respect people for their talents, and not to judge them on who they are as soon as you meet them.  Highly, highly recommended.
1941	The_Imitation_Game	"Once again, a biographical comic crossed my desk and captured my attention. This time, Alan Turing. I knew a little about him: about his genius, his contributions to cryptography during WWII, his sexuality, public exposure, trial, punishment, and his (apparent) suicide. I didn't realize his impact on modern computing, that his theories formed the basis for what we know about computers and artificial intelligence. I had no idea he was an Olympic class runner. I didn't know that his death by suicide has been in question, and may in fact have been a tragic accident. I recently read a graphic biography of Stephen Hawking by this author, and he has a flair for bringing stories of eccentric geniuses to life, and making them accessible to younger readers. These esoteric scientific and mathematical concepts are so far beyond my own intellectual scope that reading them in this format allows me to (almost) understand them. And knowing what happened to Turing allows me to gain a greater understanding of the world. As the author's note concludes: ""I wish I lived in a world that benefited from decades more of Alan Turing, alive and well, thinking and discovering."" We need deep thinkers, people who can see beyond the world as it exists, now more than ever."
1943	The_Imitation_Game	English mathematician and scientist Alan Turing (1912–1954) is credited with many of the foundational principles of contemporary computer science. His code breaking efforts led to the cracking of the German Enigma during World War II, work that saved countless lives and accelerated the Allied defeat of the Nazis. His innovative work still fuels the computing and communication systems that define our modern world.  He was also arrested, tried, convicted, and punished for being openly gay. He was forced to take estrogen injections in attempts to decrease his “urges.” His cause of death is still widely debated, but most, including the author saw it as suicide.  His relatives, friends, lovers, and work colleagues were interviewed to tell a majority of this story from their point of views. Turing was a brilliant man whose life was tragically cut short. I would’ve liked to learn more about his personal life in between his accomplishments.  CW: suicide depicted on page, violence, explicit sex
1944	The_Imitation_Game	This is a graphic novel about the mathematician Alan Turing, famous for coming up with the Imitation Game, a key concept in the field of artificial intelligence and an idea that is illustrated in words and pictures in this very book. Less of a complete biography and more of a multivocal look back at several of the most notable experiences of Turing’s life, this book is a wonderfully illustrated and clear recounting of some of Turing’s accomplishments. The standout episode is his time at Bletchley Park, a code breaking operation of the British during WWII where Turing applied his mathematical brilliance designing a machine that aided in decoding encrypted German communications. The work was so secret that even decades after the war ended no one was permitted to talk about it, even when applying for future jobs. The artwork and narrative of this book are a wonderful introduction to the man and his work and the narrative frame is even a little edgy and experimental, itself a tribute to Turing’s groundbreaking math.
1945	The_Imitation_Game	"I wanted to read this after seeing the movie, but am not sure the format of the graphic novel was ideal. It was confusing to follow the narration because the speakers kept changing, even with color-coded dialog boxes. And, many of the male characters looked so similar that it was really hard to differentiate them all. Alan Turing was brilliant, and I was fully expecting to not understand everything discussed here. What I didn't expect was to understand next to nothing about his theories, mathematics, and work. So, this book feels like a good attempt to share the life and work of a really vital historical figure - not shying away from the atrocity of his trial, conviction, and forced ""therapy"" - but came out as confusing and pretty inaccessible. Agree with other reviewers that the movie is more accessible (and enjoyable) than the book in this instance. At least watch the movie before reading this, for increased comprehension! "
1946	The_Imitation_Game	"In the unlikely case that you don't know the story of Alan Turing, Jim Ottaviani's The Imitation Game provides an excellent, if sometimes confusing, entry point. Ottaviani follows the traditional cradle-to-grave biography path, but intersperses the straightforward storytelling with narration from the people who knew Turing. This conceit is revelatory at times and hard to follow at other times. I was never quite able to figure out the identity of the second narrator - clearly a play on the Turing Test, but I guess I'd rather an easy-to-follow narrative than one that toys your mind.  Ottaviani also seems to take great joy in digging into the details of how Turing's inventions and mathematical proofs work. Those passage don't exactly make for thrilling reading unless you have a math degree. Fortunately, Leland Purvis's art is fresh and clear and pulls the story along nicely, even when it's decoding the nature of the ""bombes."""
1947	The_Imitation_Game	"I didn't find this to be Alan Turing decoded, it was more Alan Turing complicated. -The interview format was impossible to keep up with who was actually narrating. It went from person to person with no notice, went from narrating to dialogue with no notice, and had ideas sometimes stopping abruptly... it was just all over the place and made it very hard to follow along with the story. -The way the ""A"" was written was never consistent and sometimes looked just like a triangle that made it hard to read. -None of the concepts were simplified for the reader and a lot of the times the explanations just ended without full explanation. If you are someone who doesn't have a wide knowledge of the inner workings of computers than this book will probably not help you understand them further.  While these confusing aspects may have been on purpose, they just don't translate into an enjoyable read. I would look elsewhere for a book about Turing that does his story justice.  1.2/5"
1948	The_Imitation_Game	"This book is a non-fiction graphic novel about the life of Alan Turing, who is thought to have started ""theoretical computer science and artificial intelligence"". The book starts with his childhood and goes through his life spending a lot of time on his contribution to WW2. The book is written from the perspectives of lots of people who knew Turing well, such as good friends and his mother.  I thought this book was really interesting and was pretty good. It was a little confusing though, it switched perspectives quite frequently, so I wasn't always sure what was going on all the time. It also goes into details about his work with computers and includes many different mathematical equations, which would probably be interesting for someone who know about those kinds of things, but I'm not one of them."
1949	The_Imitation_Game	This graphic novel tells the story of Alan Turing, the mathematician who cracked the Enigma Code during WWII. He is depicted as a genius, yet socially awkward, oftentimes bordering on inept. While the bulk of the science and math went way over my head, I found his life to be interesting despite it being tragic. In particular, I enjoyed the sections where Turing was toying with designing a computer and started thinking in terms of artificial intelligent.  The story is told in a mix of standard narrative and interviews from those in Turing's life. I don't think the interview aspect worked in this case and am not sure why this method was even added. The art style was fantastic, bordering on realism in many points. The end of the story was very well done, with the illustration being a large part of conveying the message without having to articulate Turing's demise.
1950	The_Imitation_Game	Graphic-novel biography of Alan Turing, told through memories and interviews in the aftermath of his death. There were a lot of fascinating bits of history in this story, and some insights into Turing himself that were intriguing. The story doesn't always deliver the depth that I would have liked, especially as someone who knew only some spare details about Turing's life and works.  The author does not shy away from Turing's sexuality, or the results of the sentence that was carried out on him, but there is no explicit material.  The illustration style works well, especially in some of the more introspective and dreamy sequences.  This was a good read, but it felt fragmented in places, suggesting that there was more to the story beneath the surface, and to some extent that was intentional as much of Turing's life remains, well, enigmatic.
1951	The_Imitation_Game	While I had seen a movie about Alan Turing and his work during WWII, I had no idea about the rest of his life. This was a fascinating read, I know many adults blow off graphic novels but I say, Do not belittle the messenger! I learned about his early life and academic career and the many other things beside the Enigma machines that he created. By the time he had died, sadly from possible suicide brought on by prosecution for being a homosexual, he had started creating what was to be the first desk top computer!  The man was a genius and was developing things way before others could even comprehend his work. It was sad that Manchester was a school that did not understand his abilities and had people that seemed to deliberately stand in the way of any of his projects. It packed so much information into this in a very entertaining way.
1953	The_Imitation_Game	Maybe even 2.5 or 2.75 ⭐️ I think I understood like 20% of this book….  The math and computing stuff was definitely hard for a layman to follow, but at times the storytelling structure of this novel was, too. Sometimes we got Turing’s voice in the colored speech/narration bubbles, sometimes it was the person from his life that was being interviewed…and it’s never stated if these were actual interview excerpts or imagined conversations with such people, and the people often are not introduced at all before they start talking. Some contextual note before the panels started would have been appreciated, as it was just a lot to puzzle out in addition to trying to understand the actual content of the novel.
1954	The_Imitation_Game	This graphic novel is about the life of Alan Turing. Some of the plot points are similar to the movie. Alan's homosexuality became a criminal offense after someone tried to rob him. He worked in World War 2 at trying to decipher the Nazi codes and created a machine to do the computations. There was a young lady that helped him during the war. But then the rest of his story becomes much more than the movie. Alan Turning worked at various universities in the computer/ artificial intelligence field. The book goes into some of the technical side of his work, which could be tedious. But the story of a brilliant man trying to make sense of the world around him was interesting.
1955	The_Imitation_Game	I've been strangely interested in 'obscure' historical figures, particularly ones who lived during the WW2 era, and was excited when I picked up this book. It's actually a very good biography of Alan Turing, however, it does get quite confusing at times. There were times when I had no idea who they were 'interrogating' in the grey scale frames. I also would have liked a little better explanation of the math that Turing was presented but too much math probably would have made the story longer and more boring. However despite the confusing bits, I still really enjoyed this novel and I really hope to find another biography graphic novel soon!
1956	The_Imitation_Game	Alan Turing is a fascinating and tragic person. I can't enthusiastically say the same for this book. While I found the details of Turing's life very interesting, I didn't love the narrative structure of the book. I found it difficult to follow at times, and I didn't love the whole interview concept it was going for. The book tried to explain some of the technical aspects of Turing's research, but that mostly went over my head (which isn't necessarily the book's fault). All in all, I thought this book did a decent job of conveying the details of Turing's life and it was certainly more interesting than just reading his Wikipedia page. But only just.
1957	The_Imitation_Game	This book could have been so much better, but it fell short for me. I don’t think the interview style really worked for the narrative, especially since it was generally confusing to quickly determine who the narrator was. There were few places in the story where I felt the narrative flowed smoothly, which makes for difficult reading. I was also disappointed that the authors spent the least amount of time on the aspects of the story I was most interested in and the most amount of time on the aspects of the story I was least interested in, but perhaps that is just personal taste.  Overall, this book is a good introduction to Alan Turning’s tragically brief life, but I found the author’s note and recommended reading in the back the most helpful for learning more.
1958	The_Imitation_Game	Let's start with a couple of disclaimers: this book is not meant to be a real biography and it's pretty different when compared to the movie of the same name. I thought both of these things going in and it somewhat hampered my enjoyment of this book.  Still, this is an enjoyable read, mainly thanks to its impressive artwork. The technical jargon can feel overwhelming, but I would advise simply scanning it. As long as you get the base idea, you'll be fine. The book does lack a bit in coherent storytelling, but it doesn't affect your enjoyment too much. At the end of the day, you'll have an enjoyable time and learn a lot more about Alan Turing.
1959	The_Imitation_Game	Unless you already know a detailed history of Turing (which I do not, just a basic sketch), this book is basically worthless. Harsh, but honestly I was so confused throughout the book. Between all the math-talk and talking around/vague references to all the details of Turing's life, I was lost. The format was interesting, but, again, confusing. All of the different types of speech bubbles were unclear. I swear the one type flipped between three different purposes throughout the book. An interesting idea but poorly carried out....or maybe just above my head. In conclusion, I feel like the book does not stand on its own. So unless you already know all about Turing, steer clear.
1961	The_Imitation_Game	This book succeeds with the difficult task of telling a biographic story and explain scientific ideas. Both Alan Turing's life and his ideas are well worth the effort. Ottaviani seems to have a special talent for this type of books. He's previous book on Feynman contains one of the best explanations of quantum electrodynamics I've read. Here he successfully tells the tragic story of Turing's life and also captures Turing's thoughts on subjects such as computability and artificial intelligence. Turing's ideas are still width us today as we now are in a world where the interrogator is quite likely to fail in the imitation game and confuse a machine with a human.
1962	The_Imitation_Game	As with his other graphic bios, Ottaviani provides a good representation of the theory (in this case, theoretical math / computer science) at a level that is reasonably understandable by laypersons. The book also covers the Enigma Machine in fascinating detail. My main complaint is that I sometimes got confused about the correlation between speech bubbles and character. There was a color coding but it wasn't intuitively obvious, so i occasionally found myself confused about whose POV I was reading. 
1963	The_Imitation_Game	Great graphic novel detailing the life & work of Alan Turing. It is set up in a cool looking back style for Turing's life & includes interview style panels with his friends & relatives. After the work, the author has a note at the end discussing recent posthumous honors bestowed on Turing by the British Prime Minister & Queen along with recent theories surrounding his passing. I would recommend it to people interested in learning about Alan Turing, world war II history, British, lgbtq+ history, & developments in computing. 
1964	The_Imitation_Game	"I picked up this book, thinking that the movie ""The Imitation Game"" was based off of this graphic novel. It sort of is; they're both based off of the same person and the same event. But this was so much different. Let me just say that I loved the movie. I don't normally like WW2-based films but this one was excellent. Now, look at my rating. I definitely did not feel the same way about this book.  1) The art style. I can normally appreciate different styles of art (and I do appreciate this one) but I didn't like this one bit. It was like Ottaviani drew a rough sketch of what he wanted, and then handed it to his children to colour in. Too sketchy and way too messy. I was not a fan.  2) The story. Now, I understand this was based off of a real person, so I understand that this can not really be helped. But the reason I loved ""The Imitation Game"" film so much was because I was so interested in the Enigma. I loved finding out how Alan Turing solved it and made the machine run better than it had before. Machines are so interesting. This story barely focused on this fact, however. It was mainly based on Alan Turing's life and homosexual relationships. Another thing that I loved about the movie was that it was mentioned, and briefly showed Turings' sexuality but didn't focus on it. (I love LGBTQ fiction, and support the community, but sometimes don't want it the focus; they're normal people, too and I want to know more about them as a person not just their sexuality.)  3) Confusing. The story was extremely hard to follow and there was at least a quarter that I didn't understand at all.  Overall it was just bad. I mainly gave it 2 stars instead of 1, because I understand that this is non fiction and most of the ""bad"" content is related to that. Hopefully if I read another story about Alan Turing, it will be a lot more like the movie.  So, skip this graphic novel; go straight to watching the film."
1965	The_Imitation_Game	I'm not typically a graphic novel reader so filter my thoughts through that. I felt like this focused more on his sexuality than on his scientific and mathematical contributions. Certainly that element of him cannot and should not be ignored, but it was too heavily represented in this work. I felt it left him poorly represented as a whole person. I am impressed with the smooth weaving of various voices throughout this book; it fairly quickly became easy to determine who was 'speaking' and from when.
1966	The_Imitation_Game	I think this is better than the film. This gives more of a personal insight to Alan Turing. It prosents his story in a interview manner with people from his personal and work life relaying their personal memories. Discribing in detail a better representation of his life and his important work towards the war effort. Finally discribing his tragic story of his struggles with his sexuality in a time period who saw is illegal and distasteful.  I wonder full and interesting story for people who love history and find Alan Turing's story a fascinating one.
1967	The_Imitation_Game	I read this after having watched The Imitation Game, which was my first real introduction to Alan Turing's life. I was expecting it to follow much of the same plotline, and was pleasantly surprised to find that this novel stretched a larger time frame. From my prior knowledge of his involvement in WWII, I was able to piece together what was happening. I'm not sure if I would have been more or less confused if I hadn't seen The Imitation Game, as the graphic novel was definitely more vague for that period of time.  Overall, it was beautifully illustrated and I greatly enjoyed reading it. The math is still beyond me in most cases (at least, with a skim over), but I was able to understand to some degree what was going on.
1968	The_Imitation_Game	Maybe 4.5 stars. The interview style is questionable, often difficult to relate to or seemingly out of place - then for long periods of time you immerse in Turings life and the wealth of information is incredible. I found this book enjoyable, it had a good pace and didn't spoon feed you every point it was trying to make - you are often left rereading a page realising the sinister undertones or the inferred anguish. It also corrected a lot of the false truths from the film of the same name, without realising it.
1969	The_Imitation_Game	I borrowed this graphic novel from the library. It's a different kind of telling of the Alan Turing story. At times I found it a little hard to follow, as it is sometimes told in his voice, then at other times in the voice of people from his life. I thought it would be similar to the movie of the same name, but it differed in many ways, which was not a bad thing. It's well drawn and moves along well. Turing was a genius, but in the end his story was quite sad. This is a decent read and worth checking out.
1970	The_Imitation_Game	If you are interested in learning more about Alan Turing, I’d recommend starting with something other than this. I had hoped reading it would encourage me to read more about him. I got the gist of his life story, but nothing that motivated me to read further about his life. I have seen the Imitation Game movie and I do see between both of the book and movie the important role Turing played in the War and computing. I wholeheartedly agree with the author’s statement “I wish I had lived in a world that benefited from decades more of Alan Turing, alive and well, thinking and discovering.” 
1971	The_Imitation_Game	I learned things I never knew. The tension was felt throughout this graphic novel. I felt like the structure was very well done when it came to the interviews, and I felt like the author portrayed Alan Turing very well. Seeing what he and others were able to do during the war was so amazing and the end was so appallingly sad. After reading this, I looked him up and was happy to see that in 2021 Alan Turing was the first gay man to be put on a British bank note and that it was released on what would have been his birthday.
1972	The_Imitation_Game	I appreciate the effort on making Turing's story into an illustrated book. It's an important story that needs to be told, since he was a pioneer in computer science but was submitted to unjust treatment just because of his sexual preferences. The 2014 The Imitation Game is great and quite compelling.  I didn't find the book as endearing as I thought I would. Save the last segment of the book and the part with Joan, most of the book was at times hard to follow and not really that entertaining to read.
1973	The_Imitation_Game	"The subtitle of this graphic format biography overpromises ""Alan Turing Decoded."" While the book does provide some useful information about his life and celebrates his contribution to computer science, I don't think it explores his motivation and personality or impresses upon readers the horror and injustice of his treatment by the British government as fully as the movie or as a more exhaustive biography could. I will try _Alan Turing, the enigma_ by Andrew Hodges instead. Recommended only as a cursory source, perhaps best for teen readers. "
1974	The_Imitation_Game	The Imitation Game is written by Jim Ottaviani it is a very good book and I definitely recommend it but the only negative thing about it is that one or two things are a little confusing. The main character in the book is called Alan Turing he was a mathematical genius who during world II tried to crack the German Enigma code with help from some other mathematicians while he was trying to figure out things in his own private life. It was a very intriguing story and I did not expect the end of the book. Definitely recommend reading.
1975	The_Imitation_Game	Alan Turing's ideas are plainly explained in this graphic novel, and I struggled with them, but am grateful for the opportunity to learn more about the famous gay mathematician and some of his ideas. The book is engaging and I kept on reading to the end even though I knew the tragedy at the end. The method used to identify speakers was brilliant as well as the way the story was captured in very few words. 
1976	The_Imitation_Game	At times, i was super lost in this book because of the challenging vocabulary and alternating voices. Despite that, i really love this story of perseverance and injustice. Turing was a genius with a kind heart that wasn’t respected in the way he should’ve been. I think that making this story into a graphic novel is super smart because there’s no other way to illustrate writing better than a graphic novel. 
1977	The_Imitation_Game	I enjoyed reading this book. I thought the drawings were good. I read the hard cover version of the book not the ebook. I have also watched the movie the imitation game. What else can I write about the book. I liked that it was a quick read. fast reads make me feel like I am a fast reader. I think Alan turning is fascinating. He did so much in only 41 years. I would like to have been able to meet him. I am sure he would have been fascinating to talk to. 
1978	The_Imitation_Game	To learn about a genius who conceived of AI before computers even existed, who understood that operations of the human mind can be replicated in machines, who wasn't scared of creating something that could potentially match or even exceed our ability of thought. To learn about a genius and realize that he was also just a man -- a man whose desires were deviant and who had to pay a heavy price for that deviance.  Ottaviani does a great job of painting Turing in a three-dimensional way through a mosaic of subjective dialogue from himself, Turing, and those who knew him. Also, fuck the law.
1979	The_Imitation_Game	I don’t think a graphic novel format is the best way to deliver the complex and layered life of scientist Alan Turning. Maybe it’s just me, but I often felt lost with where the story was going in places, and the non-linear way in which his life was described with interviews from colleges, friends and family only added to the confusion. Even though this was a quick read, I felt like I had to really push myself through the last 75 pages or so. 
1980	The_Imitation_Game	A pretty solid biography, immaculately researched, though the Americanisms in the language can sometimes be a bit jarring. The artwork is perfectly suited to the story, slightly chaotic, but packed with little details. The story , while conventionally told, is gripping and moving.... and Una fraud to tackle some heavy mathematical theory. It’s use of the Imitation Game as a way to structure the story is genius!
1981	The_Imitation_Game	I love that Alan Turing's story is becoming more broadly shared with the world. His impacts on the computing world are incredible and should be celebrated and recognized. However, I did not like this graphic novel. The story telling style is not an effective vehicle for such a powerful message, the animation style felt amateur, and using an interview format felt like it minimized Turing to the memories of others, and not to who he was himself. 
1982	The_Imitation_Game	I loved the movie The Imitation Game and learning more about real-life figure Alan Turing. I'm glad I finally got the chance to sit down and read this graphic novel about Turing. It's not based on the movie -so there's plenty that the same, and plenty that is different. I really enjoyed it though. Some aspects were a bit hard to understand/follow, but I'm not a math/science person. Regardless, definitely a good read. 
1983	The_Imitation_Game	It's criminal this has a lower rating than it does. This is a story of brilliance, ignorance and intolerance. It's a story of a man who was the best version of himself and was ultimately punished for it. There's just so much to write about Alan Turing and his legacy and achievements that I'll be here all night. Do your own research and be richer for it. There is also a movie by the same name as this title.I highly recommend.
1984	The_Imitation_Game	I am so mixed on this book. I love the art style and the illustration through the graphic novel but the point of view on book just doesn't make any sense. There is no context on the book at all, after reading it I still don't know what the enigma code is. Alan Turing is an amazing man who saved many lives because of his work, It is a shame that no one reconsidered him for his work because of his homosexuality. This book is not the best way to honer this person. 
1985	The_Imitation_Game	This book was hard to understand at first, and I almost didn’t finish it due to my difficulty in grasping the POVs, as well as the extensive math lingo which I just didn’t understand. But once I got a bit farther in, I grew to have a deep appreciation for the lengths which the author took to be authentic and include as many Easter eggs as possible. A fascinating read for anyone who has the time and patience.
1986	The_Imitation_Game	1.5 Stars. Turing certainly lived an interesting life. Unfortunately, the way Ottoviani presents his story is neither interesting nor does it lend itself to a sequential art format. The first half of Turing's life is presented in tedious detail but the second half feels rushed and needlessly compressed. The art is simple and not very distinct. Also, Ottoviani kills his own credibility with his Afterward.
1987	The_Imitation_Game	"Graphic novel ""biopic"" about the life of Alan Turing, without with we probably wouldn't be looking at things on computers today. To say nothing of the fact that we probably wouldn't have won WWII. Tragically, he was convicted of the crime of being gay in 1952. He was forced to endure chemical castration and died in 1954 of cyanide poisoning. There's still debate on whether it was accidental or suicide. He was only 41. This was an unintentional selection for Pride Month, but I'm glad I read it."
1988	The_Imitation_Game	Still working on it. Although I appreciate the necessity of the including the mathematical theory, I am finding it heavy slogging. Surely a brilliant man with an incredible mind. As a tribute to greatness, well done! Sad story though - we're don't treat our genius minds well. Still reading and have inserted others in along the way.
1989	The_Imitation_Game	I read this in preparation for the 2017 Books for the Beast conference. I found it very difficult to comprehend, and it's not something I would have chosen to read on my own. Mathematics and computers are not within my realm of expertise, so it's likely that a person with more understanding of these subjects would enjoy the book more than I did.
1990	The_Imitation_Game	This is a really good book. I don’t know if the movie was specifically based on this GN or just followed a similar approach to Turing’s life—I haven’t seen the movie and hadn’t heard of the GN before now—but it would make sense to me, because it builds a very solid foundation of the man’s life. Well done.
1992	The_Imitation_Game	Loved it. Again, Jim Ottaviani gets to the bottom of the person and the science (or maths in this case), or more importantly it's applications. The end notes about Turing's death are interesting to read as well. Leland Purvis' drawings are spot on and seem to suit Turing's slightly chaotic character to the ground. The way they change toward the end made me feel sad.
1993	The_Imitation_Game	This was an interesting story about Alan Turing, a highly intelligent mathematician. Turing helped end WWII by cracking the Axis codes and later continued his work in computer science. Events towards the end of his life led to an untimely death (surrounded by controversy). This was an informative book though a little bit confusing at times due to the changing narrators.
1994	The_Imitation_Game	This is the best comic book biography I’ve read since March by John Lewis. I was incredibly impressed by the author’s use/illustration of significant life details: around the house chess, poor grades in non-math subjects, and letter correspondences for example. The illustrations are simple but powerful visual aids for the story.  Excellent for a mathematics classroom.
1995	The_Imitation_Game	I was amazed by the story. To think that someone could create a machine to break codes, just blew my mind. Sexual orientation was a surprise for me. I thought Alan was so consumed with his thoughts that he blocked his natural desires and relationships. He was a strange character for sure. I was thrilled when things began to work. The ending was sad though.
1996	The_Imitation_Game	This was too smart for me. So much math and explaining scientific stuff that went right over my head, but learning more about Turing was great. In his acknowledgments, the author said he wished he could have lived in a world where Turning was able to create and invent for many more decades and get the recognition he deserved during his lifetime, and I do too.
1997	The_Imitation_Game	This graphic fiction novel was such an incredible read that I bought it, and read it, in the same day. Ottaviani tells this story of Alan Turing and in the process, teaches us in layman terms, some of the concepts that Alan Turing was responsible for introducing to the worlds of crytology, mathematics, logic, and games. Wonderful read and wonderfully illustrated.
1998	The_Imitation_Game	I found this story to be confusing, overly technical and boring. The interview style dialogue made the plot difficult to follow and nearly impossibly to understand who was speaking. I also grew wary of the constant references to homosexuality and how scandalous it must have all been.  Overall, a poorly written graphic memoir of someone who is actually rather remarkable.
1999	The_Imitation_Game	Well, there are certainly a lot of algorithms in this book--most went right over my head. It took several pages to understand how the book was organized and that we were going back and forth in time and with narrators. But an excellent book about Alan Turing and his contributions to computer science, AI, and the war effort. He was a genius and not truly appreciated during his lifetime.
2000	The_Imitation_Game	Not my favorite graphic biography but good. I had a hard time discerning who was who and who was talking quite a lot during the book; it became clearer by the end, and I think some of it may have been on purpose as a reveal, but personally I don’t like to be confused when I’m reading. Good book, just not for me. 
2001	The_Imitation_Game	From a technical standpoint I would rate this 2 stars, compared to the movie… probably the same. In the movie it focuses heavily on WW2 and his childhood, while in this graphic novel version is based around his whole life, and shows a lot of him right before the death. So, this book is definitely very subjective.
2002	The_Imitation_Game	I don't usually gravitate toward graphic novels but I want to expand my horizon in this genre. I loved the way this story was set up. Alan Turing's life reads like a science fiction novel, and I had to remind myself that the events described actually occurred. It was compelling and brought up important dialogue on the rights of the LGTBQ+ community. 
2003	The_Imitation_Game	DNF 50%  I haven't been able to follow any narrative thread or figure out POVs consistently from the beginning. It's kind of frustrating. A few interesting personalities and a few war crimes(?). All manages to feel oddly boring and low-stakes, considering it's actual spycraft in a world war. Mostly made me want to watch the movie again.
2004	The_Imitation_Game	In the imitation game, Alan Turing's life is put into a comic, with narraration, making his life easy to understand and easier to fall into the pictures. Plus, it provides information on the bombes, and all of the decoders. I don't have the biggest review on this book, but this book is very interesting!
2005	The_Imitation_Game	This is a good story, but I don't believe it was told well in this graphic novel. The multiple narrator issue was especially hard to follow, but the illustrations we're fine. It was great learning about such a fascinating person, and this comic made that information fun and accessible. 3*
2006	The_Imitation_Game	Liked it enough because Alan Turing is fascinating but the format is hard to read and the math/programming stuff went right over my head--which I guess is how many people around Turing must have felt as well. 
2007	The_Imitation_Game	Between not really clicking with the art and it being a sad sad story (and me reading two other sad books at the same time), I just had to drop it. :-/ I can't *not* recommend it, it just wasn't for me at this time.
2008	The_Imitation_Game	Alan Turing's story is intriguing and sad, and it should be more known. However, the interview-like format did not execute well in graphic novel form. Some parts were hard to understand or could have been portrayed much smoother. Worth the read still.
2009	The_Imitation_Game	very sad. most went over my head. also like his book feynman this is less appropriate for young audiences because of the illustrations as well as the subject matter. I'm not sure why these are marketed as ya graphic novels. maybe no one has read them.
2010	The_Imitation_Game	For anyone who has wanted to understand the details of Alan Turing's discoveries (but were too afraid to ask), this graphic novel will lay out Turing's accomplishments in plain language couples with edgy illustrations. Loved it. 
2011	The_Imitation_Game	The dialogue was very good, but like The Enigma, this falls into the Alan Turing biography trap of focusing too much on the math and not enough on the person. I was also not a huge fan of the art style. 
2012	The_Imitation_Game	I guess you have to be into math to enjoy this book. I found it fell flat for me: they seem to be trying to get across that Turing was a social misfit if not perhaps someone with ASD of some sort. He comes across as totally unrelatable IMO and therefore uninteresting. 
2013	The_Imitation_Game	The Turing's life is incredible by several points of view despite its sad epilogue. The plot is somehow ok even if not easy to follow in some parts. The corresponding movie is more enjoyable. The comic is a bit overcrowded but this is my personal taste.
2014	The_Imitation_Game	I absolutely loved the movie and had to pick up this book. It’s far more in-depth concerning the science behind Turing’s genius than I expected. The changes in point of view were difficult to follow, but overall a great experience for me. 
2019	The_Imitation_Game	"This was a fascinating biography. As someone who studied computer science, it holds even more interest to me. You learn about the ""Turing Machine"" in school, but this book is about a human being. It's a tragic tale of a brilliant mind and the life he lived."
2020	The_Imitation_Game	Wow, this was DENSE, lol. Not quite what I was expecting, but also very interesting. I didn’t realize I knew as much about Alan Turing as I apparently do! But there was also so, so much that I didn’t know. And also many things I’ll never wrap my head around 😅🧐 
2021	The_Imitation_Game	Another book where I wanted to enjoy it more than I did. I liked Ottaviani’s other graphic novel biography Primates a lot, so I had fairly high hopes for The Imitation Game. I still want to learn more about Alan Turing, because he’s always sounded like a really interesting person. I think the format of this graphic novel just didn’t work for me. It’s mostly made up of interviews with people who knew Turing and who are trying to remember their experiences with him and remember the things he said to them. I felt like I hadn’t learned much about him as a person, by the end. Maybe I can find other biographies about him that do a better job.
2022	The_Imitation_Game	A complex and sometimes difficult to follow book. I appreciated that even while it frustrated me.
2023	The_Imitation_Game	A beautiful addition to the small body of work about Alan Turing. Well worth reading.
2024	The_Imitation_Game	A genius rises and creates something that remakes our world and yet, he is persecuted for being a homosexual. A shameful time in Britain's history that has the world shocked nowadays.
2025	The_Imitation_Game	My 12 year old read this, but she is incredibly mature. Prepare to have some in depth conversations about some very controversial topics - which exactly what I was hoping for.
2026	The_Imitation_Game	 I loved all of the math, science, and engineering in this book! The ending breaks my heart:(
2027	The_Imitation_Game	I might the narrative arc of the other Turing graphic novel that personalizes him more. This not as quite as tight of story. Glad to have both. Kind of like the two Andre the Giant book.
2029	The_Imitation_Game	Bogged down in technicalities, numbers, and non-numbers, I'm not sure I want to continue. Was Turing really this boring?  
2030	The_Imitation_Game	Book 14 in my goal of #50YAbookssy20172018
2031	The_Imitation_Game	This graphic novel is better than the movie of the same name. It is more complete in its narrative, with fewer extraneous narrative conventions, and presents Turing more humanely.
2032	The_Imitation_Game	"""For myself, I wish I lived in a world that benefited from decades more of Alan Turing, alive and well, thinking and discovering."""
2033	The_Imitation_Game	Interesting read.
2034	The_Imitation_Game	Probably deserves more stars, but I got busy with school and other books while I was reading it, so I didn't end up reading it often enough to enjoy it. 
2036	The_Imitation_Game	A bit hard to follow with all of the changing interviews, and the math in general. 😝Tragic, but enlightening, ending. 
2037	The_Imitation_Game	Really interesting glimpse into the life and mind of Alan Turing. 
2038	The_Imitation_Game	Real good. Hard, difficult, fascinating, tragic, clear look at a brilliant thinker. Excellent use of the comics medium. Love the framing device and intertwining narrators.
2039	The_Imitation_Game	Much better than the movie. 
2040	The_Imitation_Game	Brilliantly written about a man before his time who did so much for the War and so much after
2041	The_Imitation_Game	It was a hard book to get through. I felt that it was very confusing and hard to follow.
2042	The_Imitation_Game	Alan Turing’s live story is a but sad, and the story’s ending felt abrupt, nevertheless this is an informative historical graphic novel. 
2043	The_Imitation_Game	"""ok"" confusing t one point made now point "
2044	The_Imitation_Game	Beautifully illustrated but really hard to follow and understand. I wasn’t into it at all.
2046	The_Imitation_Game	Good insight into Turig and WWII. Great read for introducing CS to students in graphic novel form.
2047	The_Imitation_Game	Quick, interesting (but heartbreaking) read.
2048	The_Imitation_Game	Graphic memoir. Enigma code. Eccentricity. Bletchley Park. Social injustice. 
2049	The_Imitation_Game	Complex and highly symbolic.
2050	The_Imitation_Game	For me, this was an interesting read about a man and computers 
2051	The_Imitation_Game	I wasn't a fan of the drawings and thought it was a biography when I bought it 😅  Still was interesting. It gave a good insight into his life, personality and his legacy.
2052	The_Imitation_Game	[review to come]
2053	The_Imitation_Game	Note: I received a digital review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
2054	The_Imitation_Game	3.5 I did like parts, but too many gaps/disjointed leaps, especially if you don’t have much other background. 
2055	The_Imitation_Game	Last book I got before lockdown loved it so much 
2056	The_Imitation_Game	Father of AI. Homosexuality. Estrogen injection. Dead of cyanide fumes inhalation (?).
2057	The_Imitation_Game	This was a easy read due to it being a graphic novel. I love reading about the life of Alan Turing. I saw the movie The Imitation Game and this book gave me a deeper understanding of his life.
2058	The_Imitation_Game	Messy drawings and muddled storyline
2059	The_Imitation_Game	Definitely want to explore more books about Turing’s life in the future
2062	The_Imitation_Game	I think I like the idea of this book more than the book itself. Ugh! Isn’t that frustrating? I think I’d prefer a traditional biography on Alan Turing.
2063	The_Imitation_Game	Meh ... Nothing new here to learn although the storytelling method was original.
2064	The_Imitation_Game	We follow Alan Turing and all that he has accomplished/been a huge Influence in mathematics and technology before, during, after after ww2
2065	The_Imitation_Game	It moved kinda slow and the font of the text was really hard to read but I loved the illustrations. 
2066	The_Imitation_Game	Turing's life story is fascinating. I enjoyed the style chosen to tell his life story through interviews from those who knew him. 
2067	The_Imitation_Game	A little too much focus on the math, but overall a good depiction of the story of a man who gave a lot to humanity only to be treated horribly.
2068	The_Imitation_Game	I really like the art style, and I learned a lot of things about Turing that I hadn't known before, so that's fun
2069	The_Imitation_Game	3.5 stars. Really liked it, felt like it was hard to follow at times but could also be my brain not being math inclined at all. 
2070	The_Imitation_Game	Excellent life of Alan Turing
2071	The_Imitation_Game	Could NOT get into this thing. Bogged down with way too much philosophy for my taste.
2072	The_Imitation_Game	I really enjoyed the book. I learned new things about the war between Britain and Germany. I also learned about how Alan Turing was the one that technically created the computer.
2074	The_Imitation_Game	Imitation Game: Alan Turing Decoded is a sophisticated graphic novel history of Alan Turing, the genius of early computer programming who cracked the Nazi enigma code in WWII. I like how the book is segmented into three parts--Alan's childhood, and how his dreamy, mathematical meanderings didn't always endear him to his teachers; his work at Bletchley Park, where readers are gifted a walk-through of his amazing thought processes, tangents, and social webs and scrapes; and his life after Bletchley, when funding and opportunities dwindled, his service made secret, his theories usurped, and he was tried and publicly humiliated for his homosexuality. The way the author chose to present the story, as if interviewing his family, friends, and Alan himself reads very much like a conversation that includes the reader.  The language is not technical, a huge plus for teens and adults not familiar with logic. I love the way the author shows the complicated concepts through simple, practical items, like the tape. Hopefully, the book sparks scientific curiosity and an interest in learning more about the math. I might also pair it with Tetris: Games People Play by Brown, depending on the student and his or her focus.  WWII is kind of wallpaper in the story. History buffs might be disappointed. Tension could have been added by showing more of the impact of every delay in not solving the Enigma--soldiers dying in specific battles--and the inverse, instances where the knowledge saved Allies' lives. Readers would then get a peek at the events of the war. Still, there is so much awesome about this book. The themes of bullying, exploration of homosexuality, and institutionalized prejudice are both relevant and powerful and will have cross-over appeal to fiction lovers.  Great recommend!
2075	The_Imitation_Game	Sometimes the graphic novel just confuses me. As it did here. This volume is relatively wordy, and left me just wanting to read more of a book. What did the illustrations add? Well perhaps such a format will encourage the curious to pursue the topic. 
2076	The_Imitation_Game	Read Harder Challenge - Prompt #6: Read a nonfiction YA comic.  Good but hard to follow at times
2077	The_Imitation_Game	"n 2001, the movie, ""Enigma"" was released. It was directed by Michael Apted, and was adapted from the novel by Robert Harris. As both a book and a movie, ""Enigma"" was pretty good and told the fictional story of the breaking of the German Enigma code at Bletchley Park during WW2. The ""hero"", Tom Jericho, was an Alan Turing-like math genius who both saved the world and won the girl. Unfortunately, the movie had a weak ending and turned Tom Jericho from a neurotic-math genius into some kind of war hero of the physical kind. I've always liked the movie, knowing it wasn't great, but the makers at least gave it a ""go"". It had great music and the production details were spot-on. (I also like the actor Jeremy Northam, who plays a sleazy government agent.)  Now, almost 15 years later, we get a movie, ""The Imitation Game"", with a bit more of the real story. It is based on the book, published in the 1990's, ""Alan Turning"" by British mathematician, Andrew Hodges. (I also read and reviewed the book.) The ""hero"" this time is the real Alan Turing and he is depicted in ""The Imitation Game"" as a nerdy Cambridge math genius who is brought in to Bletchley to break the code. But Alan Turing, in addition to being a math genius, is also gay. No getting both the code AND the lady in this movie. At the time, being a homosexual was a crime in the UK.  I saw the movie this afternoon, on its first day of release, in a theater in ""fly-over"" country. Chicago, New York, and Los Angeles all opened the film a few weeks ago but we out in the boonies had to wait til today. The movie was well worth the wait. I had wondered how the director and the authors of the screen play were going to handle Turing's homosexuality. Well, it was handled brilliantly. The film, which is only about two hours long, captured both Turing's times and life in an understated manner. The movie opens with his post-war investigation and arrest and goes back and forth to his work in WW2 and his pre-war youth in a British boarding school, where he is treated cruelly by other students. His only friend - and defender - was a boy named Christopher, who died at a young age. Alan names his code-breaking machine ""Christopher"" in his friend's honor.  The movie ends, as does Alan Turing's life, with his suicide after being forced to take hormonal treatment to be rid of homosexual urges. But most of the movie is devoted to Alan Turing and his fellow code breakers at Bletchely. The movie recounts how important breaking the Enigma code was and how difficult it was to do. The machine that Alan Turing developed was the forerunner of the computer I'm using to write this review.  Benedict Cumberbatch - is there a movie he HASN'T been in lately - as Alan Turing is brilliant. Kiera Knightly as Joan Clarke, a fellow-code breaker, is also good. (In both real life and the movie, the two were engaged to be married but the engagement was broken.) The supporting cast also does their acting duties and the production values are excellent...HOWEVER...  Rob Slaven, writing an excellent 4 star review of the movie on this site, raises some interesting points of movies getting historical facts correct vs the ""movie truth"". He refers to a Slate Magazine examination of the movie which points out the differences between the movie version and real events. This is a problem with watching an ""historical movie"". What's true and what's ""fudged"" or made more ""filmable""? I'll add: as film goers what should we take with literary license? Some of the characters in ""The Imitation Game"" were seen through the lens of ""literary license"". Relationships between characters were not always as they were depicted on screen.  So, I'm left in a quandary, as both a movie goer and a reviewer. I really enjoyed ""The Imitation Game"". Should the film have been labeled, ""Based on history"" as some films are? And would I have been happier watching a documentary about the life of Alan Turing, where all the facts presented must be correct? I simply don't know. But I sure did enjoy this movie."
2078	The_Imitation_Game	SEE-IT Award nominee. I'm giving these all 5 stars to avoid spoilers, and holding off on review until the award has been presented.
2079	The_Imitation_Game	2023 open book challenge: graphic novel. I’m familiar with Alan Turing’s story, but this was just boring. The interview framing was hard to follow, and I just felt like so much was glossed over. Maybe I’m being too harsh because I am not really a fan of graphic novels, but even the artwork in this wasn’t all that great. 
2080	The_Imitation_Game	As someone who vaguely knows about Alan Turning, this book was a hard read. The format with the interview was hard and just the storyline was hard to follow.  I would only recommend this book if you’re already familiar with his history.
2081	The_Imitation_Game	3.5 for me. The more I learn, the more I feel like the uk has gotten shafted in history when it comes to their contribution in ww2 compared to that of the US. Yeah, we ended it with a big bomb, but the UK had 3 times as many deaths when adjusted for population than we did. We also get to see how homosexuality used to be a crime and a genius man was convicted and finally killed himself because of it. What a sad end to such an important figure. Hopefully stories like this can help make things better. 
2082	The_Imitation_Game	"This review was originally posted on Blame It On The Books  I thought the idea of telling Alan Turing's story in this graphic format was really interesting, but the execution was lacking a bit for me. I read the ARC and that meant all the images were in black and white. There was a note included in the book that said that the finished copy would have colored sections and black and white sections. This was supposed to help the reader distinguish who's point of view the story was being told from at the time. Hopefully, this does help in the finished copy, because I found myself really confused throughout a lot of the book.  The story was set up like an interview. There was an interviewer asking questions, which were being answered by friends and family of Alan Turing (and I think sometimes Alan's voice made and appearance, too, but I'm honestly still a little confused about that). I don't really see why the interview format was needed. I think the story would have been just as effective if it was told from just one point of view - and it would have been a lot less confusing, too. I thought Alan's story was really interesting, but the confusing shifts in point of view really jarred me and pulled me out of the story.  One thing that really disappointed me about this book was how the LGBTQ aspects of Alan's life were breezed over and felt like they were thrown in at the last minute. Alan Turing was a gay man living in a time when homosexuality was illegal in England. When it was revealed that he was gay during a court case, Alan was forced to undergo hormonal treatments in an attempt to ""fix"" him. These treatments ravaged his body and destroyed his spirits. He ultimately ended up committing suicide and a brilliant mind was lost. But these tragic points of Alan's story were barely mentioned! There are just a couple pages on his hormonal treatments and then suddenly the book ends and he has committed suicide. The book mostly focused on Alan's contributions to science and WWII, and yes, these are important aspects of his life that should be remembered. But the fact that he was a gay man forced to undergo hormonal treatments which led to his suicide should not be brushed under the rug.  I think this is definitely an interesting read if you are interested in science and the history of World War II. But although the synopsis makes it appear that LGBTQ issues will be addressed, that is not the case. This is more a record of Alan Turing's contributions to cracking the German Enigma code, not a record of Alan Turing's life."
2083	The_Imitation_Game	Jim Ottaviani is a master at writing non-fiction comics, taking complex ideas and events and presenting them in a way that is both engaging and enlightening. He’s written about the atomic bomb, Richard Feynman, and primates, among other topics. His latest book, illustrated by Leland Purvis and published by Abrams Comic Arts, is a biography of Alan Turing.  The book is a little bit of a puzzle: aside from the characters in the book, there are narration bubbles in two colors: one of the narrators appears to be interviewing the other, but then the dialogue from the illustrations overlaps and intersects with this ongoing conversation. What makes it even more odd is that the interviewer appears to be Turing–strange because the topic of this conversation is Turing himself. There is, as it turns out, a method to this madness, though I won’t explain it here.  What I will tell you is that Turing’s story is told through the eyes of various people in his life: his mother, his brother, various friends and colleagues, and so on. The book follows Turing through college and his career, with a large section about code-breaking during World War II. The ongoing conversation talks about his ideas and work, but also about his personality and relationships. Turing often behaved in a way that people didn’t understand–nowadays I think we would suspect that he had some form of ASD (and there are those making this argument) though of course there isn’t a definitive way to diagnose that now. In this book, at least, he does have some odd mannerisms and often is so engrossed in his work that he doesn’t pay attention to social etiquette.  Turing’s homosexuality is another significant topic of the book. For some of the book, it is sort of the elephant in the room. Some of the characters interviewed about Turing dance around the subject, preferring to use euphemisms; others are more straightforward about it. But nobody seems entirely comfortable talking about it, because of the consequences it had for Turing.  Prior to reading The Imitation Game, I had only a general sense of who Alan Turing was, sort of CliffsNotes version of his biography in my head. Ottaviani and Purvis have created a rich, multi-faceted portrait of him and I found it truly fascinating. While the book purposely leaves some things ambiguous, it really made me think–and in more ways than one.
2085	The_Imitation_Game	There isn't much to say on The Imitation Game other than it was really well done. It took a while for me to warm to the art style, but as the book progressed, the harsh lines and diluted colours made more sense.  The reason I requested this for review is because I've been fascinated by Turing for a few years, mainly since first seeing the film of The Imitation Game in 2014. Going into this, I believed this would almost be a graphic novel retelling of that film, but this was far more. In these pages I learnt so much about Turing's childhood, and work after Bletchley Park - things that people including myself, often forget to consider because we're so captured by his achievements in one particular field.  How this story is orchestrated, with people from Turing's life (e.g his mother, Joan Clarke, Hugh Alexander) being interviewed on his journey was an interesting twist. I don't think I'll ever quite understand what happened with this aspect over pages 63-66, but nevertheless, it was a good plot device for driving on the story. It makes you see past Engima, and look closer at a shy, highly intelligent man who admirably at a time where homosexuality was illegal, refused to deny that he was gay.  Though this was in many ways wonderful, I did have a few issues with the actual text. Maybe this is because Ottaviani is an American author, but there were several occasions where he used Americanisms or American spellings e.g. Math. We don't say Math in the UK; we use Maths or Mathematics. These are only minor things, but I strongly believe that if you are going to write in the perspective of someone who is of a different nationality to yourself, you make such that the character correctly reflects that nationality. It's a picky point, but this error pulls the reader out of the story, and shows Jim Ottaviani instead of Alan Turing.
2086	The_Imitation_Game	3.5 stars.  Soo... Turing's story is incredibly interesting (and super sad). I didn't know a ton of details coming into this because I've been avoiding reading/learning about him more in depth because I knew how sad and angry it would make me. I was not wrong! So frustrating and horrible. But I wish my CS degree had had a history-of-computer-science class so we could have learned more about the guys and gals who pioneered the field.  Now, the graphic novel itself. I didn't love it...I understand the interview-method of storytelling but I found a lot of parts confusing. I thought the speech bubbles were confusing; I thought the color represented the speaker, but that turned out to not always be the case. I had a hard time keeping people straight. There was also some confusion because, I think, no one knew what Alan had done during the war, so some stuff his mom said contradicted the truth...which is fine, but the way it was presented, I was just confused.  I love the math stuff, but I honestly don't know how someone not interested in math would have felt about how much was included. Bored, I'm guessing. There was also a lot of stuff that wasn't specifically about Alan. I guess that's okay? But...potentially off-putting for a lot of readers. I would have loved a more detailed look at Alan himself, but I respect the author chose to go the way he did; it seems like a complicated story to piece together. It's just not what I would have preferred to read.  I love the author's bibliography at the end. I'll definitely add some of those books to my to-read list.  Interesting look at Turing, and I love graphic novel memoirs/biographics in general, but this won't be at the top of my favorites list.
2088	The_Imitation_Game	Likely addition to the reading list for the CTD literary analysis course I'm teaching this summer on the Turing Test, artificial intelligence, and questions about what it means to be human.  A decently accessible introduction to Alan Turing. It deals with his homosexuality in honest yet somewhat veiled ways, mostly to illustrate people's discomfort with it -- how everyone seemed to know yet ignored it because of his genius. Especially considering all that he accomplished and was gifted to do, his premature death is such a tragedy. While he's been pardoned since, that came much too late, and what about the others affected by the laws of the time? The results of his trial are so sad and disheartening. The graphic novel captures some of that pain in his body and face, especially in contrast to his running self throughout much of the earlier pages.  On its own, however, the book doesn't introduce Turing and his concepts well enough to stand on its own. It's difficult to follow some of his logic in the frames without already being familiar with them. It helps to have read some of his articles, such as his outline of and rebuttals against the arguments against pursuing the question of machines thinking, to follow those sections. It certainly would help to have some programming background to fully understand every page.  I am now on the fence about adding it to my reading list. I may assign key excerpts instead to supplement other introductory material on Turing's life and work. Regardless though, I'm glad that this book exists. He's a fascinating figure.
2089	The_Imitation_Game	"I enjoyed the water colour style illustrations. I also thought the interview structure had potential; I would have preferred more clarity though. Many times I could not identify the narrator. The voice in the pink and yellow boxes would shift from first person to third and back sometimes within a single page. I think that it's a bad sign that the authors warned about confusion in the Acknowledgements. Why publish a book even your early readers found unclear? I was confused throughout most of the book and the lack of clarity greatly interrupted the flow of the narrative.  There are also strange errors such as on page 60 which notesTurning returned from the States and never left England again. Page 126 says (after Churchill visits Bletchley) ""they eventually sent him over to the States to do ... something..."" If the second visit was supposed to be secret, why even include the line on page 60 since it was unnecessary information?  I was also confused by the lack of context about the various machines and projects. After so many panels spent on Hilbert's problem, I was surprised that machines and other works would barely be described. They just sort of appeared without any of the construction troubles documented in other works about Turing's life.  If I had to summarize this book, I would call it an overview of certain moments in Turing's life. This is by no means a graphic novel memoir. It's a series of poorly executed vignettes. The illustrations are the highlights. With a different narrative structure, this book could have been really special."
2091	The_Imitation_Game	I'm going to be honest, this is the first graphic novel I have ever read. With that knowledge, I will also say that I found it fascinating and would enjoy reading more graphic novels from now on.  All I knew about Alan Turing before reading this book were what I had learned in the movie the Imitation Game and what my friend and I discussed afterwards. My friend being an engineer and me being a sociologist, I was more intrigued by the social aspects of the film than the math involved. And with this book, I appreciated the fact that they discussed every part of Turing's life, from childhood to the end, and focused on his work throughout the years but also his interactions with different people and finally on what is meant to be gay at this time in history.  The beginning of the book felt kind of choppy to me, I wasn't always sure what was going on. But that may be because I'm not used to reading graphic novels! Once I got into the story, I was intrigued by all the different people who were being interviewed, and especially how they focused on his brilliant work and not on his sad demise, though the interrogator seems to only want to focus on Turing being gay.  Overall, it was a great read and taught me more about Turing than I knew before! Thought it didn't seem to flow as well as I think it should.  *I received this book free from the publisher for an honest review.
2092	The_Imitation_Game	Alan Mathison Turing (English mathematician/scientist) what a remarkable & brilliant man. Who cares if he was gay.  Warning: This book contains extremely graphic adult content, violence, or expletive language &/or uncensored sexually explicit material which is only suitable for mature readers. It may be offensive to some readers.  I did not receive any type of compensation for reading & reviewing this book. While I receive free books from publishers & authors, I am under no obligation to write a positive review. Only an honest one.  A very awesome book cover, great font & writing style. A very well written historical biography (pulp style) book. It was very easy for me to read/follow from start/finish & never a dull moment. There were no grammar/typo errors, nor any repetitive or out of line sequence sentences. Lots of exciting scenarios, with several twists/turns & a great set of unique characters to keep track of. This could also make another great WWII historical biography movie, college PP presentation, or a mini TV series, or even a documentary film. There is no doubt in my mind this is a very easy rating of 5 stars.  Thank you for the free Goodreads; MakingConnections; Abrams Comicarts; UCP; paperback book Tony Parsons MSW (Washburn) 
2093	The_Imitation_Game	Graphic novel of Alan Turing’s life. Well done illustrations It mostly concerns his war effort, but does take in how he lost favor at the end. The author leaves open Alan’s possible suicide.
2094	The_Imitation_Game	This book is not for the weak of heart, as it does involve a lot of math, while at the same time it is confusing, but not because of the math. This book does have a lot about his mathematics and theories, but the main plot was mostly about the persecution of Alan Turing as a homosexual and how people found out and reacted to it. It was confusing to read, as my copy was an ARC and in black and white, this made it confusing because there were random speech bubbles that would show up on a page during a flashback and while in the final edition it would be color coded to the person speaking, without the colors it was difficult to tell. That being said eventually after reading enough to learn how each character speaks, it was easier to follow at the end. This graphic novel was very well done and did a good job of showing all aspects of Alan Turing and the situations he was put in. I would recommend this as an addition to someone’s knowledge of Alan Turing if they only saw the movie The Imitation Game, as that was about him as a mathematician and this is about him as a person. It would also be a good book if you are interested in LGBTQ+ history.
2095	The_Imitation_Game	Rating: 3.5 stars  I quite liked this book! I felt it captured the story of Alan Turing really well, and had all the aspects of a good graphic novel.  One thing I was rather disappointed with, was that there wasn't much about Turing actually cracking the Nazi Enigma, and it didn't really show the adversity he came up against while do so, but I enjoyed the section of it nonetheless.  I also found that something that did make it difficult to comprehend the scope of the story, was that while there were speech bubbles about what the characters in the pictures on that particular page, there were also kind of narrator-type sections of text from characters talking after the events that were taking place currently in the pictures (wow, that was really confusing, I hope you can make some sense of that). While this text was good and essential to the overall plot and execution of the story, I couldn't always tell who was saying what in the way you can with speech bubbles.  Anyway, despite this, The Imitation Game was a good book. The pictures were really cleverly drawn and worked in nicely with the font used in the speech bubbles. Would definitely recommend.
2096	The_Imitation_Game	"Interesting visual layout of 3 voices or times speaking simultaneously. It's was kinda confusing for me. The first voice is just the plot of things going forward and by voice I mean the action and people in the scene. The second voice is Turing ""speaking from the dead"", or as Turing from Without Himself, commenting on things, and the third voice is usually someone interacting with the Turing Without, or sometimes behaving as if they are being interviewed. The interactions between the voices is sometimes confusing although the illustrator tries to set it straight by using differently colored dialog boxes. This third person is usually problematic because sometimes we don't know who it is. Maybe if I'd paid better attention.... but even in the main plot, we aren't always clearly introduced to new characters or reminded of who they are. Even well known characters age during the thing and its sometimes difficult to recognize people when they just show up again.  Nice reference list at the end for further reading!"
2097	The_Imitation_Game	"Terrific graphic novel-biography of Alan Turing, that makes the complicated math and computer science concepts he invented and wrestled with, clear to the non-sciencey among us, like me. I love the art by Purvis--full of color, clean lines, realistic. The chapter dividers use repeated letters and numbers to cleverly represent things like the Enigma Code, with the words of the titles popping out from the design. It was a little confusing to have multiple narrators, either Alan or his mother or sometimes a colleague or friend; the speech bubbles changed color to help you out, but it was a little weird to get used to. I enjoyed watching the movie version The Imitation Game, and this book has much more detail, and gives aspects of his life and childhood that could only be glossed over in a film. The author also uses an intriguing comic book device for some scenes, having Turing argue his thoughts about machines having souls with the ""ghosts"" of mathematicians like Lovelace and Babbage. The book has the same sad ending as the movie, though. "
2098	The_Imitation_Game	This was a really interesting graphic novel. I enjoyed learning about Alan Turing. His story was very well done. The art was really beautiful.
2099	The_Imitation_Game	The Imitation Game: Alan Turing Decoded by Jim Ottaviani and Leland Purvis is the story of Alan Turing’s life. It is a graphic novel told in the style of people being interviewed about him and then telling the story of his life with their narration. Although it is a little hard to follow because you don’t always see who was talking. The story is about Alan Turing’s contribution to the war and to science with his universal machine. I found this book really interesting, I had seen the movie The Imitation Game and liked it and so I wanted to learn more about Alan Turing. This is the perfect way to do so, it goes more in-depth about his life before and after the war, not just what he did during the war. It also highlighted the ideas of the time that people had about the LGTBQ+ community. I would recommend this book to anyone who liked The Imitation Game movie or who likes to learn about the secret heroes of World War II. 
2100	The_Imitation_Game	"I received an advanced reader copy so, as usual, the book was not a ready for publication copy. This is a graphic novel adaption of the Alan Turing story. Since the book was a pre-publication copy, all the graphics were in black and white, which made it a little difficult to follow. In a letter included by the author, he explained that the finished copy would have color graphics with black and white graphics indicating other character narration. Since all the graphics were black and white, it made reading the book burdensome. That being said, the story of Alan Turing is a very interesting one -- probably one unknown to most people until the release of the film ""The Imitation Game"". I think this book would have greater appeal to those who regularly read graphic novels - and that may well be who the author is trying to reach."
2101	The_Imitation_Game	I received the ARC of this book from the publisher in exchange for an honest review.  This is a well researched Alan Turing biography in a from of a graphic novel. The author worked on the script for three years, so it is very thoroughly thought. The novel covers Turing's work as well as his personal life and suicide. I wasn't very keen on the detailed descriptions of how his machines work, but I suppose his fans would be absolutely delighted, since the technical details are well presented.  The art wasn't something I'm into, but I appreciated hand-lettered narration. I also liked that the novel shows Turing's life through interviews with his mother, his ex-fiancee and his co-workers. It reveals how differently people perceived him.  Overall, I enjoyed it and I think if you are interested in Alan Turing's life, you could give it a try.
2102	The_Imitation_Game	"I borrowed this author's ""Feynman"" from the library and loved it so much that I went out and bought it. I read this for free online (tor.com) and I loved it so much that now I am waiting to hear about when it becomes a physical book.  The way this was written (and again, the same goes for ""Feynman"") helped me, for the first time, get a semblance of a grasp on what Alan Turing was friggin talking about. Math is 195% not my strong suit, so when something math-y doesn't make me skip pages, I notice.  I loved the writing and the artwork; the last few, simple pages most certainly gave me the feels, which I thought I was going to be prepared for but somehow wasn't.  All in all: I am greedy to get my ginger hands allllll over a paper copy.  "
2103	The_Imitation_Game	A great graphic novel, covering the life of Alan Turing from his childhood until his death.  It shows Turing as he is: a lifelong mathematician who was into running, who had a hard time interacting with people around him, the role he played at Bletchley Park in decrypting Nazi Germany's wartime code and what happened at the end when the British Government of the day decided to prosecute him.  Told from multiple viewpoints, it tells his story from his point of view as well in semi-interview format as seen by his mother and his colleagues. What is interesting is that Turing homosexuality is treated as matter-of-fact by the people around him; yet they treated him as an eccentric person, not as a monster.  Whether you know or don't know much about Alan Turing, this is a book to read.
2104	The_Imitation_Game	This was a quick but thorough overview of Alan Turing's life, especially during WWII and after. The drawing is loose and almost sloppy in presentation, which parallels Turing's own struggles with messy presentation of papers and work, but the characters are well differentiated from each other with no confusion for the reader as to whom is whom. Where this graphic biography excels is how it breaks down Turing's complex theories into simple terms to understand. Highly recommended for public libraries, an accessible tale of a complex person, who was vital in the war effort and made great advancements in math, science and technology, should be available to the masses.  Thanks to Netgally and ABRAMS for the galley.
2105	The_Imitation_Game	The Imitation Game was a very interesting take on Alan Turing's life. I was familiar with some of his work in computer science but not on what exactly he did. Ottaviani clearly did a great deal of research to make the story as accurately as possible. What really made the story interesting, though, was the story of his personal life. How the government handled this at the time is clearly something many in 2016 could not possibly fathom. Turing was humiliated and how the story ended proved just how much that affected him. The art was also well done. This wasn't a superhero story so there was no need for the bright colors and crisp drawing. This story felt real and the art perfectly complimented that.
2106	The_Imitation_Game	This book is loaded with so many events! Set during the 40s, it talks about the guy who invented what would go on to become computing software, and prob has influenced so much of the technology that exists today! So crazy to think that everything we use for granted, someone had to invent...and I mean, right, that's pretty obvious, but the work and thinking and experimenting it took him to get to this is incredible.  It also touches on some interesting sexuality issues -- Turing is gay, and when it's revealed that he's been seeing a man, he gets put to trial...and is deemed guilty. It's not until 2009 (???!!!!!!!) that the British Government formally apologizes for what they did...wow.  In awe -- this book made quite the impression at the end.
2107	The_Imitation_Game	Powerful book which is beautifully put together by the design team and publisher. There was obviously a lot of time and effort put in by the creators. I appreciate the annotations and afterword, but wish that the annotations had been more noticeable so I could have referenced them sooner. I found the format a bit confusing, interviews interspersed with the unfolding story of Turing's life itself. I was also overwhelmed with the math info but just let it wash over me and imagine an interested reader could do the same. I'd recommend making sure you understood the format and checked out the back material before diving in. Turing was a quirky individual who was betrayed by his own country (and would have experienced the same almost world wide at the time) for his sexuality. 
2108	The_Imitation_Game	Graphic telling of the life of Alan Turing right from a young boy to his death. The point of view continually shifts with many different narrators and the style of storytelling suffers a bit because of this. Interesting man but about halfway through I was looking forward to finishing this one.  Dec 2018 - I read this book again and I definitely enjoyed it a lot more the second time around. The different narrators didn't bother me so much and I was able to focus more on the story itself - a tale of a very odd man, brilliant in his fields, an incredible athlete, but strangely innocent in the ways of the world which ultimately led to his conviction. The book is well-researched and well-illustrated.
2109	The_Imitation_Game	"DNF at 35%  So this comic is written up like one of those ""tell all"" TV series that come out on occasion. You know, where they interview people who were close to the person in question and then play ""clips"" of the person's life and/or reenactments.  The format just didn't work for me.  I saw the movie ""The Imitation Game"" and while this version is probably more historically accurate, it's also 10 times more boring. It's hard to follow at times with the bouncing back and forth between the interviewee and the clips. There's also arguing between interviewee and the interviewer or possibly Turing. It's hard to tell."
2110	The_Imitation_Game	Very interesting biography in graphic novel form. It did get somewhat confusing sometimes as to which character was whom etc, but it gave interesting insights into the life of Alan Turing. While it is clear many unknowns remain and the truth has definitely been altered a bit to fit the storyline better, this is a very good, accessible introduction to his life. I appreciate the bibliography and notes and references at the end. Should you want, it provides you with all the information to research his life in the same detail the author of this novel did. Lastly, i really appreciated the graphic style: simple in all ways.
2111	The_Imitation_Game	I received a free copy of this book from the publisher at ALA.  I think this is a great piece of history and like how much play turing is getting recently. I thought the movie was amazing. this graphic novel was only so so, however. I didn't love the art style (which is totally a subjective opinion). the story was good and I did actually appreciate the method by which it was delivered using a theory he posed. it revealed more facts about his life than the movie did which I appreciated. but overall, didn't love it, I'm sad to say. I'm giving it a possibly undeserved star just for story and some of the better writing. I wish I liked the art more!
2112	The_Imitation_Game	Alan Turing (1912-1954), a British mathematician and scientist, is the focus of this historically accurate graphic novel biography. Beginning with his awkward teenage years in boarding school and ending with his death in 1954, this depiction of his life leaves nothing out. Most of this graphic novel is spent on his time code breaking for the Allies during World War II when he eventually broke the German Enigma Code saving countless lives and, by many accounts, shortening the war. With rich art work and an easy to read story line this is one graphic novel you won’t want to miss!
2113	The_Imitation_Game	It was rough to get through. I'll be honest. I'm not shy about math, but I have to say that I got lost in those logical math pages. I started to wander in my thoughts about what I would have for supper. Not a good sign. The basic plot of his life was interesting, although I had a hard time figuring out who the narrators were, who was the interviewer, etc. I may have to reread it. But, I hear there's a movie so maybe I'll go that route. At least the book spurred me on to find out what really happened.
2114	The_Imitation_Game	A high 3 stars. This is interesting, but just so...tragic, too. I knew I couldn't actually comprehend the equations so I skipped over a lot of speech bubbles that had to do with that, which I'm sure the author wouldn't be happy about because a lot was probably put into understanding and translating that stuff. Oops. Turing as a person, with all his quirks (and also the things that made him so human), was very interesting. I wasn't interested in the equations what so ever, just how they effected his life and relationships--which they certainly did.
2115	The_Imitation_Game	I enjoyed the film of the same name and this book did a good job of explaining complex details of Turing's work in a way that the layperson can understand. However, some things about the narrative were disjointed in a way that really broke up the rhythm of the book for me. The story was told from multiple perspectives, and while I understand the author's reason for doing so, I don't think it was successful. But the details of Turing's homosexuality and eccentricities were very well portrayed (and in a subtle way, reflected upon) and I think readers can still enjoy a lot from this.
2116	The_Imitation_Game	While I think some people would like this book for its focus almost entirely on Turing's mathematical ideas and machines, those reading it to learn about his queer or emotional life will find it a disappointment. We see very little of his thoughts, feelings, or relationships until they cause his downfall at the end of the book. Because the book is narrated by others who don't want to talk about his homosexuality or don't know, we don't get to see him with lovers. Only a few close friends and unending work. 
2117	The_Imitation_Game	Really liked it. Saw the movie first, then became interested in learning more about him. Perfect for high school students who love math, but I'm not convinced my middle schoolers would understand most of it. Brilliant, however. I really enjoyed learning more about Turing and continue to regret that we live in a world without him. How much more better off would our world be right now? I did get somewhat confused with the different perspectives at times, but I don't think it really impacted my understanding of the story. Not for my MS library, but excellent choice for a high school library.
2118	The_Imitation_Game	Great book about a truly fascinating person. I never knew much him about until I met the fictionalized version in Cryptonomicon. He was a mathematical prodigy who became a pioneer in computer science and cryptography, and his codebreaking efforts were a key to Allied victory in World War II. He also happened to be gay in a time and place where it was a crime, so his personal life was confused and largely hidden.  (Originally read on Tor.com.)
2119	The_Imitation_Game	I’m still relatively new to graphic novels, having fallen first in love with Alison Bechdel, but this one was quite good. The subject really did kind of beg to be written about in this form, since he was a very visual and physical person. The story was easy to follow although there were a few times I felt like the image was a bit too ambiguous. It’s nice to see Turing getting the attention and gratitude he so deserved when he was alive.
2120	The_Imitation_Game	Despite all of the technical stuff discussed in this book, I feel the story was well conveyed. For the most part, whenever I failed to fully grasp what was being discussed, and it did happen more than a few times, I considered it to be adding to the mystery and eccentricity of Turing. Whether you have an interest in technology, mathematics, or rare genius, you could do far worse. I came away wanting to read more about Turing and more from this author, both signs of a well executed book.
2121	The_Imitation_Game	Read for work. Not something I would have picked up on my own (I don't read much nonfiction) but it was an interesting read, if hard to get through at times. The art style took a bit of getting used to and I don't understand enough about math to follow much of Turing's actual work, so the first half was a bit of a slog. I got quite invested by the end, though. What was done to Turing was a tragedy and a travesty. 
2122	The_Imitation_Game	Only my third-ish graphic novel, and I really like the idea of them. I don't know why I haven't read more, except that I always considered them juvenile when I was younger and way more of a book snob than I am now. I didn't really click with much of this particular story even though I like the movie, maybe because I'm just not a math and computer brain. But I'm certainly up for trying more in the graphic novel genre.
2123	The_Imitation_Game	More of a 3.5 than a 3 star rating. I really liked the concept, especially focusing on the life and death of Alan Turing. I just had trouble following panels at certain points. Read it if you don't know who Alan Turing is. The book really discusses how he helped break codes in WWII and how much he contributed to computer science and artificial intelligence.
2124	The_Imitation_Game	"Perfect for fans of graphic novels and fans Alan Turing or the start of the computer era. Some of the math and logic was a little rushed (possibly due to format?) and my ARC didn't really provide enough of an explanation in the back matter. Oh: no ""Heil bloody Hitler"" moment, which may disappoint fans of the film.  ARC provided by publisher."
2125	The_Imitation_Game	I've always loved the non-fiction graphic novels created by Jim Ottaviani because they help me understand tough concepts. This is another title I add to that list because I want to better understand Alan Turing's contribution to WWII. It's complex math and I think it helped that I had seen the film of the same name. Tough concept but glad I took the time to read it.
2126	The_Imitation_Game	This subject really did kind of beg to be written about in this form, since he was a very visual person. The story was easy to follow although there were a few times I felt like the image was a bit too ambiguous. It’s nice to see Turing getting the attention and gratitude he so deserved when he was alive. 
2127	The_Imitation_Game	3.5 It was great learning more about who Alan Turing was. the movie and comic book depict him in two different ways. the movie shows more on what he did during WWII. the comic book shows different perspective and shows who he came to be. the illustrations were great especially towards the end when they show a shift of the way his body changed. overall it was a great comic book
2128	The_Imitation_Game	I read this book after watching the movie....it was a fascinating look at how Turing's mind figured out codes and machines, but honestly, it was just so heartbreaking how his life ended because the gov't was more concerned with stamping out his homosexuality than with allowing him to learn and discover and contribute to science unhindered.  
2129	The_Imitation_Game	This was my first graphic read and not a big fan. If I had not read another book about Turing and seen the movie, I would have been at a loss to understand it. Biblio and recommended reading list were outstanding. Reading it for library book group and our moderator wanted to expand our reading experience to include graphics.
2130	The_Imitation_Game	Interesting GN. I learned about Alan Turing who I was unfamiliar with before this book. The technical information about codes and decoding the German's Enigma machine during WWII was a bit hard to follow. I do believe that I have several students who would enjoy the mathematical aspects of this book and the GN format.
2131	The_Imitation_Game	Okay-ish graphic novel  The first half (~5/8ths) was interesting and kept me captured, but it dropped off for the rest of the book... Mostly the emotional and/or psychological parts were rather uninteresting (or rather, hard to read). Overall, I would give this graphic novel 3 stars out of five.
2132	The_Imitation_Game	Who is this narrator and wtf is going on? I think one of the narrators is his mom, one's Turing, one's someone interviewing Turing's mom... But it's hard to tell who is who, maybe due to b&w in galley. And I'm not overly fond of the artwork.
2133	The_Imitation_Game	Interesting and informative. I knew most of the story already, but also learned quite a few things from this book. The narration format was a bit odd, but I eventually got used to it. (Although, I must say, I like the movie version the best....)
2134	The_Imitation_Game	The illustrations are wonderful, but I had a hard time following who was speaking. There were multiple different colored speech bubbles and the jumps in the timeline didn't help. I still don't understand the math/science behind it.
2135	The_Imitation_Game	I really wanted to like this one, but the illustrations are very busy, and the text is very dense (not to mention confusingly color-coded). It was a challenge to make myself pay attention, which means this would probably be a hard sell with most teens.
2136	The_Imitation_Game	Ottaviani’s biography of mathematician, cryptographer, and pioneer computer scientist Alan Turing chronicles his achievements and eccentricities by adopting the techniques of a documentary filmmaker, panels of narrative interspersed with “interviews” of his mother and his colleagues. 
2137	The_Imitation_Game	Probably I'm judging this book unfairly, as I was thoroughly impressed with the author's graphic biography of Richard Feynman. This book is equally well written, but it didn't transfer over to a graphically told story as well. 
2138	The_Imitation_Game	Insightful, but I lost track of the interview narration quite often and I wasn't a fan of the drawing style. I might've enjoyed this more had I been able to grasp his mathematics. Which I wasn't even close to comprehending....
2139	The_Imitation_Game	I enjoyed this book but found it a difficult read. It is told in multiple points of view that make the story somewhat difficult to follow. However, it was interesting and tells about the important life of Alan Turning. I would recommend reading and watching the movie.
2140	The_Imitation_Game	The graphic biography of Alan Turing. Difficult to understand in part, because the author takes you through Turing's thought process as he develops his code breaking methods and machines. Still, an interesting story with great graphics.
2141	The_Imitation_Game	Turing is fascinating and different. He struggled to fit in to a world that did not completely appreciate or understand him. This book provides a nuanced perspective from Turing and those who cared for him. 
2142	The_Imitation_Game	The book was very good, and very informative about his life. it tells the story well, and it isn't completely impossible to follow with all the ethical questions. I especially enjoyed the beginning when i could almost relate to him in my life as well but towards the end it kind of made no sense.
2143	The_Imitation_Game	What an interesting person Alan Turing was! This graphic novel was a quick read and very well done. I wonder how different the upcoming movie will be...
2145	The_Imitation_Game	an amazing read that kept me on the edge of my seat....constantly
2146	The_Imitation_Game	Difficult read. Now I have to read something easy and silly. Great book though
2148	The_Imitation_Game	My review: http://ivysbookblog.blogspot.com/2016...
2149	The_Imitation_Game	very interesting tho most of the mathematical information was over my head
2150	The_Imitation_Game	Fascinating graphic biography of Alan Turing. Don't miss the author's note.
2151	The_Imitation_Game	An interesting graphic novel about some of the life and work of Alan Turing.
2152	The_Imitation_Game	"At first I thought, ""Oh, this is just an overview of Alan Turing's life."" About half way through when I realized what Jim Ottaviani was doing I went, ""NO WAY! THAT'S AWESOME!"""
2153	The_Imitation_Game	Pretty good.
2154	The_Imitation_Game	A great account of Dr Turing's life and death, though, like the movie, it takes a few liberties. The Bletchley Park scenes were the best.
2155	The_Imitation_Game	The story of Alan Turing is captivating, though I found the structure of the graphic novel to be somewhat confusing. 
2156	The_Imitation_Game	This was my first introduction to this man and his story. It's sad that his accomplishments and achievements were unjustly overshadowed by his personal life.
2157	The_Imitation_Game	Too mathy and too indirect.
2158	The_Imitation_Game	Interesting but I had trouble understanding most of the jargon. I don't know about the book but the film was more accessible.
2159	The_Imitation_Game	Interesting and accessible biography of Alan Turning, though not sure the graphic format was necessary. Dragged a bit at times, but does cover an important part of history for younger readers. 
2160	The_Imitation_Game	Interesting presentation - interviews (Grey tones) and flashbacks (colors). Such a genius and such a sad story.
2162	The_Imitation_Game	If You wanna read my review check it out on wattpad... https://www.wattpad.com/302339035-boo...  
2163	The_Imitation_Game	I'm a big fan of Ottaviani's work. This one made me want to weep all over again for the loss of Alan Turing.
2164	The_Imitation_Game	No review, just incoherent sobbing.
2165	The_Imitation_Game	A very well-said story with interesting story techniques but not that good artword. But the story is so good that it makes you forget about it.
2166	The_Imitation_Game	I loved the art work in it. And my favorite was his dream conversation with Ada Lovelace.
2167	The_Imitation_Game	An interesting tale, told in graphic form. Not as engaging as I'd like, however.
2168	The_Imitation_Game	What has changed?
2169	The_Imitation_Game	Good biography of Alan Turing with clear pictures and text. 
2171	The_Imitation_Game	Lovely, by same author of Feynman graphic novel, good endnotes
2172	The_Imitation_Game	I liked the book overall but didn't really get the technical things that Alan Turing said. And also I didn't understand how he gained weight all the sudden towards the end of the book The way the story was put was new to me and really interesting. Such as how he had many people tell the life of Alan. The ending was pretty tragic. I gave it a 7 out of 10 
2173	The_Imitation_Game	This is a nice little graphic novel on Alan Turing's life. Very accurate, with some interesting, fun facts, and some of his most important work and theories. I would have given it 5 stars if the drawings and style had been more stylized. They seemed too scratchy. But the way they portrayed some of his theories in a practical way was very creative.
2174	The_Imitation_Game	"This condensed biography of Alan Turing presents him as an eccentric genius whose work was groundbreaking and unquestionably ahead of it's time, and also an ultimately tragic figure who was prosecuted for being homosexual and never really understood, even by fellow scientists. The book is broken up into three sections, Turing's youth, his time at Bletchley Park during WWII, and the remainder of his life afterward. Anecdotes from Turing's childhood prove interesting and serve to underscore his intelligence and different way of thinking - like that he didn't understand why text has to read just one direction (left to right, and repeat) rather than back and forth so the eye doesn't have to travel back to the next line without doing anything (p. 9). While the Bletchley Park portion was interesting, it was to me the weakest of the three parts. I might just be tired of WWII stories! The third section really finished explaining the titlular ""game"" and did an excellent job of tying up the book. While it may be a bit of a challenge to get through, it's worthwhile in the end and the structure really makes sense. Being able to make the connections introduced/begun in the earlier portions made me want to start the book right over again so I could enjoy it more thoroughly.  This is a very smart book that expects much of it's readers. There is some jargon and complex math and science, often explained well and broken down enough to be understood by a layman. It's further complicated by an interesting method of storytelling with multiple narrators, using different styles of speech bubbles to delineate different people. There are also black and gray panels showing the person narrating/telling any particular story about Turing that aid the reader in following along. Sometimes. I found the design of the speech bubbles to be a bit inconsistent, and I got lost more than once as to who was currently narrating. The art is nice - well colored, realistic, and done in a slightly sketchy/messy style that fits in well with the story and the way Turing's character. I found myself wishing it were more detailed and realistic at points because I wanted to see what the characters really looked like - perhaps photos included at the end or something, which would also ground the narrative in reality. On a second read-through, the whole book makes more sense since you have the general structure figured out. Or maybe it's easy the first time through for some people, but I struggled a little bit!"
2175	The_Imitation_Game	Not every story lends itself to a graphic adaptation, but often writers and artists will find a way to overcome that. This is a case where the story itself didn't need such a treatment, and it wasn't executed quite well enough to justify the effort. Every criticism I have of this piece -- clarity, pacing, tone -- is directly connected to the medium.  The work is well-researched, though, with lots of citations. Gotta respect that.  It's competently done, but I'd rather read a biography.
2176	The_Imitation_Game	I am fascinated by Alan Turing's life, but this graphic novel is a mess. The constant switching of perspectives was confusing and the pacing was excruciatingly slow. I wanted to like this really bad, but it's just not that great for me.
2177	The_Imitation_Game	Very different story than that of the movie
2178	The_Imitation_Game	Imagine a stuffy classroom in the middle of a picturesque country in England: Cambridge, where Ludwig Wittgenstein and Alan Turing are arguing over the Foundation of Mathematics and yelling at each other with loose ties and irritated faces. Wow! I like that!
2179	Naturalist	One might hypothesize that the autobiographies of entomologists are boring. Based on this single data point, we are one step closer to proof. But due to harmful effects upon the researcher, work on the project has been suspended, and it will remain an unsolved mystery of science.
2180	Naturalist	It’s interesting how many different books get adapted graphically these days. It certainly challenges my fairly traditional idea of graphic novels as fun comic book adventure compilations. And I’m thrilled about it, typically. Although this book kind of pushed my limits. Ok, so I don’t have the most scientifically inclined of brains, but nevertheless I can get on with some sciences more than others (astronomy, archeology, anthropology, psychology, etc.) and I believe I can enjoy most others if they are presented correctly. This book heavy on biology and entomology might have been interesting to me the way a David Attenborough program usually is, but somehow it didn’t do the trick. It’s a fine book, it has exciting properly colored art, it’s based on a much lauded memoir by one of the best scientific minds in his field, E.O. Wilson, who won not one but two Pulitzer Prizes for nonfiction books and made hugely significant contributions not only to his main fields of study but also to evolutionary biology in general. The man even got into some controversy heated waters with some of his views on genetic predeterminism back in the day. That’s all very interesting…objectively. It’s certainly memoir worthy. This is important, because memoirs seem to be very popular these days and everyone’s penning them, even people who by any standard haven’t yet lived that long or done that much. So Wilson’s memoir follows a traditional narrative structure, starting with childhood and it turns out that young Ed was one of those fortunate people who figured out what they are passionate about early in life and dedicated their entire life to just that. And so from a kid fascinated by nature and some of its smallest creatures to a grown man, married with a tenured professor position, Wilson has always been a naturalist. A natural born naturalist, if you will. Whether pursuing this in his own backyard or all the way on the other side of the world. An admirable sort of singlemindedness, but does it make for a compelling story? Not so much, as it turns out. It’s an admirable life of an admirable mind, unquestionably so. But for me, a person who doesn’t really love memoirs, there needs to be more to the story. I’m not talking salacious details or dirt or even necessarily turbulence, just…more. And in this memoir, you don’t’ get much of a story of a man’s journey through life, it’s more of a scientist’s journey. Maybe the two are just inseparable. Maybe Wilson is just very private. But after he exists childhood, there’s barely any details about his personal life or the world around him, his wife is a distance supporting character, someone to write letters to or use as a sounding board, his child barely mentioned. The entire thing is just one discovery after another, one theory after the next, people enter his life as coworkers or assistants and then disappear. Personalities are usually barely mentioned, expect for Watson (the DNA guy) whom Wilson apparently detested. The scientific language and the specifics get overwhelming for a layperson, perfectly comprehensible, but overwhelming, unless you have dedicated interest to the subjects, like Wilson does. There is some excitement here…Wilson’s travels to distant exotic locales and yes, that controversy which is obviously a source of considerable bitterness. In theory, it’s fascinating to behold the results of a mind as great as that but trained specifically in other creatures taking on people by extending the same analytical methods. It’s also a great discussion topic. But in general, this book didn’t quite work for me. Though educational, it didn’t really engage my interest all that much and it kind of dragged. A very serious memoir by a very serious man. Took a long while to get through, for a graphic novel. Always excited to acquire knowledge, I’m glad to have learned about Wilson, but can’t say it was an especially exciting lesson. User mileage may vary, in direct proportion to personal interest in biology. 
2181	Naturalist	Reading this took me quite a while. There were quite complex terms and words I didn't understand without dictionary. But I found this story interesting and captivating! I actually like reading graphic adaptations this was the first of memoir. 
2182	Naturalist	"You know how sometimes you read a book and you want to invite everyone over for dinner? Not this one.  Mostly, I hated this book. The illustrations are pitiful and only rarely illustrative—that is, they only occasionally advance the text. Proportion is all over the place and most of the characters are cookie-cutters—the same body and basic face. The older Wilson who often stands beside his younger self is an exception, and that juxtaposition works well on some pages. However, Wilson himself puts me off at times. He had a terrible childhood which may explain his coldness, his indifference. He is candid about people he does not like, rarely explaining his reasons. And why brag about how easy it was to gain permission to tent entire islets and poison all life within to prove your mathematical theory?  The book begins with introducing Wilson's love of ants by squishing one to point out what it smells like. These are choices from the author. Wilson admits he chooses ants as his subject because he wants to be famous and no one else is studying them, but later he admits to mistakes. Sort of. Broken chronology and occasional lack of clarity hurt the story and the science. And then the font is a barrier. It is all caps in a font similar to Comic Sans, which would be awkward to read even if it were not sometimes shrunk to 6 point.  Wilson finds ants to be beautiful, ""clean and decorative,"" but the illustrations here provide no insight to this appeal. The illustrations are part of the problem. The inking is thick, coarse, and disproportionate—the largest ant in the world is no more than 4cm, but some shown here look at least 5cm in proportion to context, in some illustrations human arms are too short or too long, and Black students in a 1937 military academy in Mississippi? The layout is conventional and rarely imaginative. I would count page 65 where the young Wilson hands an old Wilson in the next panel a sample bottle as among the best. Most pages are divided into six boxes—over and over and over for most of over 200 pages. Page 114 offers a rare single panel with Wilson and a comrade shown in multiple places in a valley, searching for ants through the night. Overall, the book has its moments and is better in its final fifty pages than in its beginning.  I used to teach graphic novels, and this is not a good one. There are brilliant graphic books out there, many of them nonfiction. Allison Bechtel has a couple that are worth anyone's time. This one was a slog.  My granddaughter loves Primates about Jane Goodall, Dian Fossey, and Biruté Galdikas by the same author, but that book has gorgeous illustrations by Maris Wicks, uses upper and lower case font for ease of reading. Even with that one I had a few issues with the story (as best I can recall) because I am familiar with the science and scientists and their biographies. That book is interesting to an adult but is attractive and clear enough to appeal to young readers.  The target audience for Naturalist is certainly not children, is not specific and detailed enough for the general public, and surely fails as a textbook for biologists. Maybe read the memoir upon which it is based.  I thank the publishers for this copy in exchange for my honest opinion."
2183	Naturalist	Excellent graphics to showcase Edward O Wilson’s memoirs.  I immediately related to both Edward Wilson and the outstanding graphics the minute I opened the book. Like him, when I was a very young child, my father took me to an ant farm which had suddenly appeared at our front gate and sitting next to me explained how ants socialise, move weights far more significant than their weight and help to keep the earth clean. It is one of the clearest memories I have of my childhood and my father’s encouragement to study nature.  I can’t think of a better way to encourage youngsters to get out into the countryside to look at nature than through graphics and memoirs of men like Prof. Wilson. There are so many facets of nature to fascinate, enthral and educate young people and yes – take their laptops or mobiles with them on the journey – to identify, photograph and record their findings. Like Prof Wilson, they might never lose the hunger for discovering rare or even species on the brink of extinction and go onto much greater achievements in the future. If I could have my life over, I know that my passion for nature would become my vocation and career.  Reading this hugely different portrayal in the graphic format of someone’s life is fascinating. It’s no longer only words that my brain is absorbing but pictures as well. They imbed themselves more in-depth into my consciousness so that I can go back and study them at will and should the picture fade, I can reread the graphic book.  Bravo Jim Ottaviani and CM Butzer for creating this book. Bravo also to Prof Wilson for sharing his memoir with the world. He’s on my bucket list of people I’d most like to meet in life.  Rony  Elite Reviewing Group received a copy of the book to review.  
2184	Naturalist	"Despite feeling fairly confidently versed in the realm of ""cool scientists,"" I had never heard of Edward O. Wilson before reading this graphic adaptation of his memoirs. Boy was I missing out! This dude was everywhere! If nothing else, I'd recommend reading Naturalist to round out your knowledge of biology and ecology in the 20th century. There's a lot I didn't know.  That said, Naturalist is not exactly for the layman. Wilson (and adapter Jim Ottaviani) do a decent job of explaining complex science in an easy-to-understand way, but there is a lot of science to explain here. Just when you finish reading about one of Wilson's major accomplishments, he starts in on the next one. Dude's got like, six major accomplishments!  It also doesn't help that Naturalist is dense with text. It's almost as if Ottaviani borrowed the entirety of Wilson's memoir rather than paring it down for the new format. Also also: the font size definitely gets smaller as the book progresses. Not ideal.  Even with these negatives, I'd say Naturalist is worth a look. I think I learned a lot - or at least came away with a real appreciation for Wilson and biology/ecology/sociobiology. We need more scientists like him, dedicated to the craft! The art is pretty swell too, so at least it's easy on the eyes, even if you can't read the ant-size text."
2185	Naturalist	I probably picked this up at the wrong time, and I might revisit it at some later date.  This graphic biography of Edward O. Wilson is a very detailed and text heavy comic, and while I appreciated learning about the man and his passions, for some reason this simply didn't work for me. I'd put it down and not want to pick it back up. After several tries, onto the DNF pile it went.  The illustration style of Jim Ottaviani is really good, and what one would expect of him. Just not for me at that moment in time.
2186	Naturalist	I just read the excerpt on The Millions and now I know I NEED to read this. It looks fantastic!!! I love how they drew older Wilson and young Wilson in the same panels together, with older Wilson talking about young Wilson's decisions, or helping him up.  https://themillions.com/2020/10/panel...
2187	Naturalist	I loved this book. I'm becoming a huge fan of non-fiction graphic novels as a way of learning history in particular but also Science and absorbing lots of information in a quick and accessible form. I think Jim Ottaviani wrote the excellent one on Richard Feynman. The illustrations are attractive and the colours gorgeous. It was a nice touch to show the older E. O. Wilson standing next to his younger self. The book ranged widely over E. O. Wilson's life and included complex ideas in biology, sociobiology and ecology which I had to work at understanding due to lack of knowledge of Biology. Highly recommended!
2188	Naturalist	Lovely treatment about Wilson’s early life, and his scientific endeavours in ant systematics, island biogeography, sociobiology. Skips a few story arcs to be manageable, but what a treat!
2189	Naturalist	Fascinating.
2190	Naturalist	This is a memoir with pictures....and lots of talking. As a “graphic adaptation” it resembles a comic book with an abundance of 6 panel pages and the occasional full page spread. It traces the life of its subject, Edward O. Wilson, a famous academic and author, from childhood to now. But the subject is more Wilson’s curiosity and obsessions and theories and the academic fields, some quite controversial, that he helped define.  I read devotedly for at least a third of the book until his obsession with ants started to bore me. Or better put, I felt that whatever I might learn from another hundred pages of that didn’t seem worth the effort. But as I skimmed through, I saw interesting pictures and read bits and pieces that showed the controversies he encountered, so I read here and there and went back and read there and here.  I realized that the later half of this book is very academic and more technical than I wanted at times. It was still interesting as I noted the various fields he either started or supported (and which I knew little about) but this book, a “graphic adaptation,” told me almost too much about them. What was most interesting to me was the evolution of his interests, the way his studies influenced his knowledge which led to another connected interest which transitioned onto something else. Biogeography. Sociobiology. Biodiversity. Biophilia. A truly curious scientific mind.  As I stated in the beginning, there is a lot of text to read as there is a lot to explain. This traces his academic career also and gives credit to his many accomplices and collaborators. A reader more inclined toward these areas of study might find this fascinating but I only found it on and off interesting.
2191	Naturalist	I enjoyed reading this book but also have mixed feelings. I enjoyed learning the life of this scientist whom I'd previously known nothing about, and seeing how he came to be the person he is. I am inspired by his curiosity and love of nature and creatures. But I was disappointed with his lack of curiosity into the critiques of his work and willingness to engage them more honestly. I also would have liked to hear more about his work later in life to become an activist for biodiversity. He clearly missed the connections between his activism and the activism of those critiquing his work for spreading white supremacy and racism (words he barely used and was hardly comfortable engaging with). I also wish he had talked more about the women that made his career possible, including his wife, typist/editor and illustrators.
2192	Naturalist	I read this book about a year after reading the original version of the memoir, which I also rated highly, as Wilson was an accomplished and engaging writer. Perhaps counterintuitively I found that the original memoir better depicted Wilson’s deep engagement with and love for the natural world, while the graphic version focused more on his philosophical and scientific development. Either way, they complement one another well, and I came away from the graphic version with a clearer understanding of the highlights and controversies in Wilson’s career, particular that of sociobiology and Wilson’s early and fraught foray into the role of evolution in human societies, which, rightly or not, no one else really cared to tackle at the time because of the political associations. I hope we have come to a point where Wilson’s overall scientific legacy endures as it is vast, including maybe 20 highly readable and accessible volumes in addition to more strictly academic works. In response to an offhand dismissal by an acquaintance who was involved in anti-racist work at the time, he is not a Nazi!
2193	Naturalist	As one of the 1.87 million people who are part of the FaceBook group “A group where we all pretend to be ants in an ant colony,” this graphic novel particularly delighted me at this moment in history. Wilson is an excellent memoirist, and Ottaviani excels at turning stories into graphic novels. Interesting story, the images that add to it, and ANTS! (He’s a myrmecologist… an entomologist who specializes in ants… does that make him an ANT-omologist? LOL)
2194	Naturalist	A good, fast read. The graphic novel format is very well suited to the topic, and seeing the characters directly helped me remember and care about the characters (who are real, of course). I enjoyed the bits on theory most.
2195	Naturalist	I have really liked some of Ottoviani's other books (and I love nonfiction graphic novels) but I just couldn't get into this one. I read the first half and skimmed over the second half and found it very dull. I can't recommend this one. 
2196	Naturalist	Liked the complexity of thoughts delivered through graphics. Long, but value for money.
2198	Naturalist	4 1/2 stars. Wow am I grateful for another Ottaviani treatment of a fascinating science topic I otherwise would not have read. This illustrated version of E. O. Wilson's autobiography literally illuminates and makes visible the massive discoveries, deep self-reflection, wry humor and uncomfortable controversy and politicization of the biological sciences during Wilson's remarkable career. Highly recommended, and you wont look at ants the same way again.
2199	Naturalist	I read E.O. Wilson’s biography some time ago and really enjoyed it. I also liked this graphic version and it was fun to read about fellow scientists who I’ve met. I passed it on to my mom to read and she loved it too so you don’t have to be an ecologist to enjoy the book.
2201	Naturalist	This was a fun and fascinating read. An interesting way to learn something new!
2202	Naturalist	"Naturalist: A Graphic Adaptation is a biographical graphic novel adapted by Jim Ottaviani and illustrated by C.M. Butzer based on the original text written by Edward O. Wilson. Ottaviani skillfully adapts Wilson's spirited 1994 memoir into a graphic narrative full of personality, but without skimping on the science.  Edward Osborne Wilson is an American biologist, naturalist, and writer. Wilson is an influential biologist who on numerous occasions has been given the nicknames ""The New Darwin"", ""Darwin's natural heir"" or ""The Darwin of the 21st century"". His biological specialty is myrmecology, the study of ants, on which he has been called the world's leading expert.  Wilson, the famed ecologist and self-proclaimed ""naturalist hobo,"" illuminates big ideas by celebrating the small things in life. His memoir spans an unpretentious, joyful life spent reveling in the natural world and defending the field of ecology. From his childhood in the 1930s and 40s, where Wilson studied the world around him, catching snakes and dissecting anthills to his standing as the next Darwin.  Naturalist: A Graphic Adaptation is written, research, and constructed rather well. Ottaviani's adaptation and Butzer's art adds good-natured visual humor. Butzer's clean line work helps an occasionally entomologically dense text become breezy and accessible, though Wilson would surely appreciate how all the flora and fauna are labeled with their scientific names.  All in all, Naturalist: A Graphic Adaptation is a hearty graphic memoir, which is poised to inspire a new generation of naturalists."
2203	Naturalist	I found the graphic novel format of Naturalist: A Graphic Adaptation to be an enjoyable way to learn about the life and work of E.O. Wilson.  I received a free review copy of Naturalist: A Graphic Adaptation through Goodreads Giveaways.
2204	Naturalist	I loved it!! Pure n simple.
2205	Naturalist	I don't think that adapting Wilson's autobiography into a graphic novel makes it any more readable; he's never really catered to a wide generalist audience.  Thoughts: I wasn't aware that Wilson originated the species area curve.  I found it strange that he writes about a formative experience as a Boy Scout working with Black youth forming their own troop but shrugs it off as him not having a social conscious. This is true of many of us as children but especially striking here because Wilson has been accused of racism in his field of sociobiological thought.  How are there so many different ant genera?  The young Wilson isn't really drawn that young.  Does this mean I don't have to read the non- graphic version of this book?
2206	Naturalist	A Fantastic graphic adaptation of Mr.Wilson's autobiography.  E.O.Wilson's writing is easy to follow, despite the scientific jargon. His curiousity for scientific understanding of world around him stayed since his childhood and that is very rare. Majority of all his discoveries are original and are not derivative. He reminded me a bit like Feynman who looks at life around him in a macro sense despite working deeply on minute ant colonies and their behaviors. His work on Sociobiology/Conservation shows that he is more than a heads down scientist.
2207	Naturalist	I love graphic memoirs but this fell flat for me. The essence is lost in the adaptation. 
2208	Naturalist	Eminent biologist E.O. Wilson offers an illustrated adaptation on his memoir, taking us from his childhood as an ambitious boy obsessed with nature all the way to Harvard and historic findings about ants and their social organization.  The book, adapted by Jim Ottaviani and illustrated by C.M. Butzer does a good job of introducing us to its subject. Wilson is a boy of modest means in 1930s Birmingham, Alabama. He is always darting out into nature and collection specimens; he has a particular fondness for snakes, including a venomous one that bites him during a Boy Scout demonstration.  The book does a good job of balancing his self-deprecating humor and obvious self-regard. Even as a pre-teen, Wilson seems sure he's destined for big things, and he plans a careful path toward being a world-class biologist. It seems telling that he chooses ants as his specialty not just because he enjoys them (he does) but also because the group offers a stable launchpad for his career.  And oh, what a career it is. From the University of Alabama to the Harvard Society of Fellows, he finds mentors and opportunities, traveling from Papua New Guinea to Sri Lanka in search of new findings about ants. To advance, though, he needs to be more than an ant specialist; he needs to develop some grand unifying theories. And so he works through some math I didn't understand all that well to make his name publishing larger theories of species competition in island ecosystems.  The book does a good job walking us through Wilson's career and collaborations, including later rough patches when he's attacked for extending sociobiological thinking to human behavior. The harder science wasn't entirely clear for this novice reader, but they still illustrate his curiosity, rigor and determination.  I found him an admirable character, although I think his persistence was also paired with plenty of good fortune as to when and where he happened to be born. (To Wilson's credit, he calls out the limited opportunities available to his black peers and also admits he generally overlooked them.) The art is a bit clumsy but gets the job done. It's a rewarding read for fans of science.
2209	Naturalist	A graphic format adaptation of scientist Edward O. Wilson’s memoir. I found this in the graphic novels for adults section at the library and checked it out without really knowing what it was about. Wilson has won the Pulitzer Prize twice, and is one of the foremost authorities on ants. This memoir traces his life from childhood through his career.  I’m not at all scientifically minded or experienced, so some of the text, even in this adaptation, went over my head and it was a slow read for me despite the graphic format. I did find it interesting. There isn’t a great deal about ants, this is more about the study of ants. One of the more interesting arcs was an experiment Wilson conducted with a partner in the Florida Keys. They were testing a theory about the number of species that would repopulate an area after its destruction. While difficult to do with a large island with mammals, it was possible on very small islands populated by just insects. His work showed correlations between sociobiology of insects and mammals, and he sparked significant controversy when he extended his theories of genetic predisposition to humans.  What the graphic novel enhances is a complete lack of diversity in the field. It’s almost entirely white men. Wilson mentions this, but as we’ve become used to seeing diversity in most contexts, the illustrations accurately depicting only white men is notable and made me wonder what discoveries were delayed or missed because of this limitation.  As the content was sometimes over my head, I think this would be a tough read for most teens, unless they are really into science and biology. Still, an aspiring naturalist or biologist may find Wilson’s career and observations inspiring.
2210	Naturalist	This book is likely best for older readers (HS and above)--not due to mature content as much as it is a slow, dry read. Think slow like: studying ants for a living kind of slow. It's gorgeous, though, and 4-color! There were parts that made me pause from confusion (some of the terminology was beyond me, I'm not a scientist!) and other parts that felt uncomfortable (EO Wilson grew up in the South but barely recognizes his white privilege). Additionally, he went around the world to steal specimens and bring them back to the US for knowledge and research. It might not feel quite the same as stealing art or archeology, but it's pretty much the same in my book--either way, a dominant white culture is profiting off of the resources of a developing nation. All that said, I wish this graphic adaptation had been around when I was in HS--a much more palatable read than the original. Hopefully this will encourage a new generation of scientists who can be open and inclusive when discovering the natural world.  Highly recommended.
2211	Naturalist	got bored 75% through, partially because i already know all of the scientific concepts talked about so there wasn't much to hold my attention  story: good, but to really Understand most of it, you have to have taken upper level undergraduate biology classes.  art: makes me understand why some people are vehemently against digital art. it seems lacking of life. some areas are needlessly very detailed, and most could use a little more detail. there are also a big handful of glaring mistakes that I can't believe weren't caught (ex pg 40 where many butterflies were'nt colored in).  story and art together: artwork feels a bit childish against a story with so many Big Words and high-level concepts. i'm sure these artists do great work on books aimed at younger audiences, but this wasn't a great match.
2212	Naturalist	"This was a book I bought to share with my 11 year old, who has vastly more knowledge of nature than me.  I don't yet know whether he'll pick ut up to read, but for my part I enjoyed it very much.  Not a simple illustrated kids book, but rather ""a graphic adaptation"" as promised by the cover.  The narrative and science of the original autobiography is preserved, and the visual presentation used to great effect to convey more meaning.  Four stars rather than five as the illustrations could have been more varied than the conventional grid layout.  Nonetheless, recommended for anyone with an interest in Natural Sciences."
2213	Naturalist	"A great nonfiction graphic novel for adults. I was glad for the illustrations of various insects along with their scientific names. Also the depictions of various science experiments were cool to see instead of just read about.  Personally, as interesting as they were, I found some of the science experiments disturbing. There are no detailed illustrations of what they did to achieve ""mini-krakatoa"" scenarios, showing hundreds of thousands of bugs dying, but I imagined it and it was horrific. "
2214	Naturalist	I liked the art and the way the narration was done throughout the book. It felt like it flowed well compared to Sapiens. However it also felt less engaging than Sapiens in the way it presented ideas because it felt more like I was being spoken to from monolithic figure because of the language and way the narration was done. The beautiful artwork was was got me to pick up and keep going with the book. I wish E. O. Wilson didn't die while I was reading about him and just being introduced to him because it makes me feel mean for saying anything negative about him now.
2215	Naturalist	E.O. Wilson knew he was going to be an entomologist from an early age. This book follows his childhood and adult adventures in nature, his academic career, and how he developed his theories and the studies, with statistics, to validate them. And lots about ants. I assume the text is taken from his book of the same name. It's much easier to read in graphic format - I would not have picked up the original book - and the graphics are very good. Yes, it's text-heavy for a graphic book, but the content requires that. Fascinating guy.
2216	Naturalist	This graphic memoir does appeal to people of all ages and scientific abilities. Naturalist tells the story of one person's life journey appreciating the natural environment as a child and through adulthood and working for our natural environment. The comic strip style graphics apple accurate scientific details without overwhelming the novice reader. The main character has an enthusiasm that encourages resourcefulness and learning. I recommend this book for families, classrooms, and libraries.
2217	Naturalist	The graphics are beautiful! I previously did not know much about E.O Wilson's personal life and achievements, but now I know he was so much more than just a myrmecologist. While I know a bit about current science I am interested in learning more about the history that has shaped the science I know and love today. I think this graphic novel was a great start for me to start building a stronger foundation of influential characters/moments in science.
2218	Naturalist	I enjoyed the parts about the subjects young life discovering things about plants, animals, and insects but it just went on for too long. I’m also not sure the graphic novel format was great for this. Two minor complaints about the physical book- 1. The font was irritating, small, and I was constantly misreading words because of this, 2. The illustrations were not for me they kind of seemed a little Microsoft paint-esque. I’d skip this one. 
2219	Naturalist	just over halfway point was explosive. amazing little memoir that made me have respect for E.O. Wilson and what he went through in the academic field. pioneer in so many subjects I value/find interest in for sure. my take away lesson: inspired by his insatiable ambition and hunger for discovery, as it's something he seemed to want to do til his dying days, RIP.
2220	Naturalist	I loved this graphic adaptation! I most likely would never have picked up Wilson's traditional memoir; I love how graphic novels can make a topic more accessible. If this book had existed when I was in middle school or high school I think it would have been a great motivator.
2221	Naturalist	I like Ottaviani's graphic biography/memoir adaptations of scientists, a nd think they are great introductions to complicated subjects and fascinating individuals for casual readers. However, around the 2/3s mark, this started to suffer from some sections of static art and walls of text.
2222	Naturalist	Great graphics and it creatively fit into the memoir's theme. 
2223	Naturalist	Now I want to read his books. I hadn't realized how many of Wilson's ideas have permeated into our thoughts.
2224	Naturalist	I don't really care about ants, but I really enjoyed reading about someone who does. I love learning about awesome scientists and this was a great adaption.
2225	Naturalist	What a life! Could have leaned a little more into the graphic novel medium.
2226	Naturalist	My eyes weren't too into the small size of the text, and I was a bit bored and confused, but still interested in reading more of or about this man, RIP
2227	Naturalist	NF 231 pages  A fun way to read about his life's work.
2228	Naturalist	Inspiring yet slow, it was a slog to get through but it definitely opened my imagination and my sense of discovery.
2229	Naturalist	Wonderful book! The art is terrific and is a perfect match for Wilson's famous book.
2230	Naturalist	Classic E.O. Wilson. A good introduction to his writing, especially for young people.
2231	Naturalist	It’s just a bunch of facts about Edward Wilson’s life one “I moved and went to 14 schools”, “I went to the zoo and saw a tiger”. This was one of the worst memoirs I have ever read. Stopped reading.
2232	Naturalist	I truly enjoy reading Edward Wilson's book. He is a truly great scientist and writer. Even though his information is sometimes beyond my understanding it well worth reading.
2233	Naturalist	Highly academic, scientific, and detail oriented. This book required my full attention, and I learned so much.
2234	Naturalist	This was an enjoyable way to take in E. O. Wilson's story. I especially enjoyed learning about his youth and his early proclivity for studying the natural world. I spent some time feeling sad that I didn't get further in my own naturalist education, but then when he was fumigating whole tiny islands to rid them of thier insect populations, I decided I didn't have the heart for that kind of research. He certainly learned a lot from that series of experiments, but I wonder, would it still get the stamp of approval from the parks service? Also interesting how much times have changed since his early days as a scientist and his advice that there are still volumes to discover about the tiny, microspopic forms of life.
2235	Naturalist	Through Ottaviani’s interpretation of Wilson’s words, as well as Butzer’s skilful capturing of thoughts and events in his colourful and accessible art, Naturalist: A Graphic Adaptation manages to both inform and entertain. It tells the story of Edward O. Wilson’s remarkable life and career in a way that impresses and inspires, and reading it will hopefully prompt others to follow the same path as Wilson and do what they can to increase knowledge and understanding of the natural world.  Full review available at Culturefly:  https://culturefly.co.uk/book-review-...
2236	Naturalist	Alabama is such an odd place, with so much diversity in nature and at the same time, so many groups and people diametrically opposed to the thought of evolution being a real thing. I honestly don't even know where I fall in that regard, but this graphic novel adaptation of a scientist who got his start in Alabama drew me in because of where he ended up in light of where he started. I appreciate the dedication to scientific integrity and assume the graphic novel reflects the original memoir, but it was such a dry story in comparison to the beautiful graphics.
2237	Naturalist	This career memoir of an anointed member of the intelligentsia, details a life lead completely within the confines of academic institutions. This book presents some interesting ideas not just about biology, but also about the intersections of science, philosophy, and politics. Beautiful sentiments the author expresses about adventure & knowledge are somewhat undercut by his own arrogance and god-complex.
2238	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	A factual and scientific overview of the Manhatten Project composed with art from multiple graphic novel artists and a dramatic narrative from author Ottaviani. This book reviews the historical and scientific aspects of the creation of the atom bomb, but also takes a very keen look at the effect of the creation on the consciousnesses of the creators and the lasting effects on their lives.  Many writers have found the graphic novel forum to be a very effective way of communicating to a wider audience but also of using the artistic structure to convey themes that usually can only come across in movies- and sometimes poorly at that. Ottaviani takes full advantage of the fluid nature of a graphic medium to transport the reader both into actual times and places of the past, but also into the minds and moods of the characters. He tinkers with the facts but is true to the events and goes as far as appending explanations of every change and why it was done. At times the loose flow is hard to follow, and makes you wish that Fallout could be made into a motion picture to get a fuller effect of the sights and sounds that the writer and artists are expressing.  Readers of Fallout will draw inevitable comparisons to Maus, a prior graphic novel about World War II, and Ottaviani admits it as an influence is his source material. The comparison is unfair; Maus is an original masterpiece, where Fallout is a spin-off of sorts. Nonetheless, Fallout is a worthy inheritor of the legacy, and encapsulates a less traumatic but equally devestating aspect of the war.  I recommend this book to anyone who needs to learn more about one of the most devestating and powerful weapons ever devised- which would be just about anyone I know.
2239	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	"My rating is really one star and change. The building of the atomic bomb, and the Manhattan Project in particular, makes for an absolutely fascinating story that has the potential to read like a thriller, full of crazy, unforgettable characters at odds with each other while being completely united. Unfortunately, this isn't that book. (That book does exist, and I reference it at the end of the review.)  Mr. Ottaviani's graphic novels on science are usually stellar, so I had high hopes for this one. The cover alone is a winner - that's Oppenheimer in the foreground with a mushroom cloud appearing to come out of his pipe! But the happy conjunction of Ottaviani and science - and that of words and pictures - slowly collapses until it takes a downward plunge in the last big section. It just doesn't work.  For one thing, using multiple artists for different sections was a very, very bad idea. There were literally thousands of people involved in making the bomb, and keeping them straight is essential to the story. Once you've been introduced to them both, you need to be able to tell Leo Szilard, who dreamed up the bomb in the first place and was the guy who got the Manhattan Project started before coming around to the anti-nukes perspective, from Edward Teller, who was as gung ho about nuclear weapons as it's possible to be and, before anyone knew the first bomb could work, started advocating for a program to build the H-bomb (which is much, much, much more destructive and deadly). Nuclear hawk vs. nuclear dove? Very important distinction. (I'm not getting into the details of Szilard lobbying for the start of the atomic bomb program and then lobbying to get it stopped later - it's much more complicated than that.) They're both short with broad faces, but surely it's best that they be presented consistently. That was a big problem when artists switched, too, because you had to relearn all over again which faces went with which names.  That would be simply an annoying problem if it weren't for the incoherence of the story as well. Ottaviani is doing himself no favors with layout, especially in the section on Oppenheimer's security clearance in '54 (where, again, I had troubles telling the Congressional committee from the ""defense counsel"" to Oppenheimer himself. The panels move from marching down the page and over to the next to marching across a full two-page spread without any indication that for the change or any reason why it's necessary. There's very little momentum in the comics part because the outside panels are often sacrificed to include the official correspondence between Oppenheimer and the committee. The politicalegalese is hard enough to read if you read it straight through. Reading one block at a time - blocks that end mid-sentence - for twelve pages in a row is ludicrous. No one's going to take away his comic book card for including one page that's straight text - it's a venerable comics tradition for notes, letters, anything that's just too long to be chopped up. The hearing section in general is a total failure. It's clearly meant to be the crux of the book in terms of character (Trinity is the crux of the science, of course), but I can't even say it falls flat because it never lifts off the ground in the first place.  The other annoying thing is that you really need the notes to know what's going on sometimes, but sometimes when you flip back for a note all you get is ""this sentence actually comes from the follow-up letter Szilard sent on a month later on March 31."" The amount of research that went into this book is impressive, but there's nothing that the reader cares about in there. Later completely confounding things are left with no explanation. Plus there's no indication of there being a notes section at all or which page/panel they apply to within the work itself. If you're not referring constantly back and forth to the notes, you won't know they're there.  Most annoying are the notes where Ottaviani explains what he's trying to do with a panel, as if he wants the reader to know how much talent he's put into it. If the book shows that talent to begin with, there's no need to tell me about it. If it doesn't, then the explanation comes off as delusional boasting. Either way it's a really bad idea.  Look, this subject is incredibly interesting and incredibly important. Richard Rhodes does an amazing job of covering this in his page-turner masterpiece, The Making of the Atomic Bomb. Considering Ottaviani's other successes, I'm shocked to find this such an impenetrable book. The history is so rich and the people in it are such wonderful, maddening, brilliant characters too weird to be made up that the failure of this book is simply baffling.  Seriously, skip Fallout and read The Making of the Atomic Bomb. You won't regret it."
2240	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	-- read for class  The story throughout Fallout is by Jim Ottaviani, who was a nuclear engineer and is currently a librarian. The story is split into four main sections, plus a prologue, epilogue, and three interludes. Sections follow the lifecycle of the atomic bomb – so for example, Birth is the store of how Szilard conceived of the initial concept of splitting neutrons and lobbied for the US Government to fund the research. In this sense, the scope is nicely wide – we so frequently only hear about the research done at Los Alamos, that it’s interesting to see Szilard drum up support, have the early research illustrated, and also to see the aftermath, most notably Oppenheimer’s trial in 1954. The artwork is shared by roughly seven artists, plus a letterer, a lay-out artist, etc. Each artist is responsible for discrete sections: ie Work, Death, although sometimes sections are interspersed. For example, in the middle of Birth is an interpretation of a dream Szilard had, rendered by a different artist from that who drew Birth. The Interludes between sections are all by the same author. There is a substantial notes section at the back of the book, which supplements the factual information throughout, notes alterations to timeline and characterization made for the sake of the story, and so on. My primary criticism is that because there are so many artists who contributed, main characters frequently don’t look alike from one section to the next, which disrupts the continuity of the narrative and makes it more difficult to follow. Additionally, due in part to the notes section at the back, while I think this is a really neat concept for a graphic novel, it may not actually be the best format in which to tell the story.
2241	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	The atomic bomb, and the shadow it has cast upon our culture, is something that has lingered in society's cultural consciousness to the point that we have to make great video games like Fallout 4 in order to relieve some kind of psychological paranoia and panic. That's all a fancy way of saying that the thought of nuclear annihilation scares the crap out of everybody. What's fascinating then is observing writers and comics artists tackling the Manhattan Project, and looking at the imperfect men who made the original weapon of mass destruction.  This book was a good read, but honestly having read Jonathan Fetter-Vorm's graphic novel Trinity, which follows the creation of the Atom bomb while also going into the science, Fallout left me a little frustrated. There are passages that sometimes drag on and on, and while it is fascinating to observe the fall of Oppenheimer's government standing following the war, this book tended to lack the direction and focus I wanted. Johnston deserves credit for focusing purely upon the politics that went into the making of the first atom bomb, and I also do believe this book is worth the reader's time. Graphic novels and comics can do incredible things, and this book would be a great companion work to any history class that deals with the Manhattan Project and the rise of Anti-Communism following World War II. This book is a great example that comics can inform as well as entertain.  As a work of art however, this book suffers from some slow feet, and the need to include lengthy government memos alongside comics panels with no clear way to observe the reading direction.
2242	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	i enjoyed this graphic novel,but would not recommend it to someone who knows nothing about the development of the atomic bomb. i don't know a lot,but have recently been doing some reading on the history of it. otherwise i would have been lost. but with that knowledge as a base,i think this is very good to get into more in depth on the politics surrounding its use.
2243	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	"I think the development of the atomic bomb is a fascinating story what with the immense amount of science and labor (mental and physical) that went into it. This graphic novel lays that story out and while it was interesting (especially after having just recently seen the movies Fat Man and Little Boy and The Beginning or The End) it felt like it didn't quite add up to a coherent whole.  I didn't mind the different styles of drawing in the different sections, but I was never sure what or who's story was being told. We get different slices of the bomb's creators and history from each section but then we have an Oppenheimer heavy ending that seems out of place with what came before. The development of the bomb, along with the increasing ethical and moral crises it engenders is thought provoking, but then we have this heavy witch hunt of Oppenheimer and it just doesn't gel together very well. I admit I skipped over a lot of the text blocks and panels at the end but that was because I had seen The Trials of J. Robert Oppenheimer on PBS's American Experience series, and was familiar with all that material. It's sad how Oppenheimer was treated but it's a bit tedious at the end after the relatively fast paced beginning and middle of the rest of the work.  Then comes the notes section, where the background info for a lot of the panels are explained in detail. This is a great section for the historical information, but more frustrating for me was the incredible amount of fudging there was in the who what when and where's. A lot (and I mean a lot) of the notes point out the author's changing who said what and in what instance for the sake of drama, and while I have no problem with artistic license... well I guess I do since it seems like most everything didn't really happen the way it is portrayed here. There is an upfront disclaimer about how the graphic novel is ""not a work of history"" but that it ""isn't entirely fiction either."" For the amount of research that went into this work I guess I would have liked it to say ""Based on true events"" on the cover, rather than the ""not a work of history/not entirely fiction"". At least then it'd be more clear that this is a fictionalized version of the story, through and through.  So, all in all, it's an interesting read for anyone who is interested in the subject, but I guess I'm more about wanting the real story rather than a fictionalized one."
2244	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	More accurately a 3.5 star rating, but goodreads is still behind the rating times. Anyways, it was highly fascinating and can be very educational as far as the science of nuclear bombs goes. My first main issue is the story itself is left wanting, which as I read more graphic novels and histories increasingly becomes what I think is the most valuable aspect of using comics to spread academic information. It can be hard to follow what exactly is happening throughout the book, even though after some thought I can see what the authors were going for. That's a problem though. The ideal for this sort of storytelling is that the reader can dive in and learn while enjoying a story. This leads to my second main problem, which is the art. There were far too many artists working on this project which makes for a confusing aesthetic. Since understanding the way an artist is helping move the story along in a comic, changing the artist for nearly every chapter means changing the way the story is told. I LOVED the first chapter with the semi-realistic drawings and use of pictures. The Interludes were great too, and I like the idea of those sections containing a different artist's style. But every chapter having a new artist led to confusion as to who the characters were.  I still think it's an entertaining book, and especially worth the read for anyone interested in the science and history of the period, but I really went into it wanting more. Interestingly, I found myself starting Ottaviani's other work, T-Minus, with similar high hopes, only to be slightly disappointed for different reasons. I'm curious to see how other authors handle turning their research into comics since it's a relatively recent effort. Maybe it's just a field that needs more time to work out the kinks, or maybe I'm just reading the wrong titles because their content is focused on the subjects closest to my own interests.
2245	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	The book, “Fallout” talks about the history of the atomic bomb blandly and is written in the form of a graphic novel. The book, “Fallout” is bad because it confuses the reader of literature and of plot confusion. “Fallout” is shown as a science nonfiction book, only to throw readers unknowing nuclear facts that perhaps only a person with a doctorate may know of. Although the book was meant to by scientifically informational, the information conveyed in the panels was very confusing to read, as there were jumps from page to page. Sometimes the reader cannot tell if the context is out of context or not. The dry literature subjected on the science of nuclear bombs have been quite boring to read, but can be understood by someone with smarts on nuclear engineering. “Fallout” can be quite interesting depending on the reader’s preferences. Such factors can include interest in nuclear science, nuclear engineering, or atomic bomb history. The book could have incorporated more distinct visuals other than bland black and white. The book is attempting to not only at informing readers about the history of the atomic bomb, but also attempts to make the story more compelling, but fails. In the texts, the story contains endless paragraphs that can only bore the reader and the bland visuals the supposedly the graphic novel was supposed to entertain the reader with. The amount of effort put into the book can be praised, as well as the amount of detail. The con about the art is the blandness and dryness that the pictures convey onto the reader. I recommend this book only if you are very interested in nuclear science and engineering but do not count on the book to give you entertainment on visuals. 
2246	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Fallout is a comic written by Ottoviani who has a masters degree in nuclear engineering himself. In this book he explains the course of developments that led to the realisation of nuclear fission and its power. The book starts with deep contemplations by Leo Szilard, a German scientist who flees Nazi Germany and meets up with Einstein in the US with a plan to end the war. One thing leads to another with folks all over the European continent wondering deeply about atomic particles - interestingly Lord Rutherford and Fermi start hunting for a chemical or element which is capable of releasing two neutrons and absorbing one to sustain reaction. The science is amazing and inspiring. The political science is even better. Here comes in Oppenheimer who is a perfect amalgamation of a scientist and a politician. He runs the Manhattan project along with the US military. This book does not deeply reflect on what scientists thought about the power they were unleashing and its implications on innocent people. End of the book shows feelings of regret. It is indeed a time of mixed feelings when the world saw one of the greatest sources of energy at the cost of horrible deaths of many innocent people. Fallout is a must read and will leave you with mixed feelings!
2247	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	I so wanted to like this book more than I did, having read and thoroughly enjoyed other Ottaviani books but this one fell short for me and at times the narrative kept losing track of itself and I struggled to understand what or why I was reading within the timeline given. The actual lead up to and the making of the atomic bomb was quite muddled, with characters crossing over each other and the story jumping around a bit. The final third of the book was an in depth look at a hearing that Oppenheimer went through to determine whether he had passed sensitive material on to the Russians and whether he was involved with communists. This was fascinating and something I'd never heard of before but again, the actual story line was presented in a convoluted way and I ended up skim reading half of this section. Unfortunately, not an easy book to read.
2248	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	I'm very interested in the Manhattan project but on the whole this was pretty boring.  While I can see that the politics is a valid part of the whole project it doesn't make for gripping comic material.  The first part is quite fascinating - seeing the inception of the whole push towards investigating the possibility of a bomb. The middle part which shows the development phase was quite well done as well, even if the science was not explained all that much.  The last part - the 'fallout' ie the hearing to determine whether Oppenheimer's security clearance should be denied - well that's just boring - a bunch of people sitting behind desks talking to each other. I mean the topic is of interest but it just drags on and on.  I'm not a big fan of the art styles used either.
2249	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Honestly, I kinda skimmed the second half of this one; it just really lost my interest, which is weird, because I find these people and the topic pretty fascinating in general. But it was hard to keep track of who was who with so many changes in artist, and the way the story is told just...isn't terribly compelling. The whole thing just feels clunky and awkward to me. I'm planning on giving Feynman a chance though, since it looks like there's only one illustrator for that one; maybe it will work out a little better for me. 
2250	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Quite verbose for a comic book, however the added personal affects, letters, and explanations added a lot of political, personal, and scientific contexts I was not aware of previously. I didn't care for the work, as a whole, but I have rated it highly because I think it provided me with a brief, but expansive, view into the political and scientific climates during the birth of the Nuclear Age. I might check out other books in the series, though only if I have some background knowledge on the subject matter; I believe I would need to know something about the material to really engage with new interpretations of it in comic form.
2251	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	True stories of atomic science, politics, academic rivalries, and the seeds of the cold war --- told with thought bubbles! It's not easy to make government hearings fascinating. Portrays the rise and fall of a brilliant scientist and executive. Oppenheimer was given a task to do that altered the outcome of WWII, and then was punished for achieving it. The panel examining him agreed that they had no data to consider him a threat, yet stripped him of his security clearance anyway. 
2252	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Detailed look at some of what transpired during and after the making of the atomic bomb, as told through the perspectives of some of the key players. Ottaviani uses original documents as source material for much of the book, including the story of Oppenheimer's troubles with Communist witch hunts. Someone who isn't familiar with the Manhattan Project or the work (scientific as well as political) that preceded and followed it may be a bit lost though. 
2253	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Less of the science of the bomb and much more of the politics of the Manhattan Project, it's scientists, and the subsequent government witch hunt of Oppenheimer. This book was much more dense than others on the same topic, but also by extension much more engaging and informative.  The interactions, lobbying and intricacies of this major epoch in U.S. history was fascinating, and well done in a graphic format.
2254	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	"lush and dense for a graphic novel. the story follows the development of ""the bomb"" prior to WWII, as well as the manifestation of ""the bomb"" during WWII and Oppenheimer's trial for being accused as a communist. here we also see the tug-o-war between the military and scientists over weapon development and funding. each chapter is also draw in a different art style, further contributing to the rich quality of the graphic novel."
2255	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	"This graphic non-fiction book was difficult to understand because it was quite detailed and involved several characters. A scene: President Truman gives Oppenheimer the Presidential Medal of Merit. Truman asks Opp. ""Do you have something you want to say?"" Oppenheimer replies ""I feel....I have blood on my hands."" Truman shrugs it off, ""Oh. Well. Nevermind, it will all come out in the wash."""
2256	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Ottaviani's written good stuff, but I sometimes feel like he expects me to know more than I do, and I ran into that with this one. Changing artists every chapter also makes it hard to keep track of characters, since their appearance changed. When it gets to Oppenheimer's inquisition, I pretty much gave up. And the science is way over my head. (I also saw several wedding photographers and didn't sleep much this week, so maybe I was just tired.)
2257	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Really interesting subject, execution leaves a bit to be desired. It could have been greatly improved with documentary-style overarching narration. Instead it tries to relay all the intricacies and social politics through confusing dramatic scenes with a vast array of unexplored historical characters.
2258	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	This graphic novel focuses specifically on the influence of Szilard and Oppenheimer in the development of the atomic bomb. There's definitely some big things that get left out (which made it a bit confusing to follow at times), but I did find really insightful how poorly politics an science worked together in these events.
2259	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	I wanted to like this, and I've enjoyed other books by Ottaviani. But this is a pretty terrible graphic novel. Poorly structured, confusingly written, the only reason I understood the plot line at all is because of scientific and historical knowledge I brought to the reading myself. This book accomplishes nothing that Rhodes doesn't accomplish more engagingly in The Making of the Atomic Bomb.
2260	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	For a graphic novel about the atomic bomb, there's surprisingly little action here. The artist's focus is more on the grave philosophical questions that came with engineering a weapon of mass destruction.
2261	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Rather uneven and longwinded. Truly the story of both Szilard and Oppenheimer pre and post the bomb is intriguing, but the many artists illustrating the story and their very different styles tend to obscure the angle and message.
2262	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	It was artistically interesting, but the story and writing weren't enjoyable and there were a lot of blocks of text which detracted from the reading experience. The content was also mostly overlapping with all of the other historical fiction about the atomic bomb. 
2263	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Interesting subject, but the artwork is inconsistent and simply bad in most places. This inconsistency makes it hard to tell characters apart visually. The book becomes pretty dull at the end with big columns of text which are not suited to the graphic novel form.
2264	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	A graphic novel about the Manhattan Project, shows history of building of hydrogen bomb and atomic bomb. physicists, Cold War, history of science, WWII, nuclear history. Albert Einstein makes an appearance.
2265	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	I wanted to like this book, but I couldn't follow it. To me, it seemed like you needed to know a lot about the atomic bomb story to grasp this. Even the notes weren't helpful. I gave up halfway through.
2266	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	A graphic novel isn't my usual format, and I was fairly familiar with all the material, but still an interesting presentation.
2267	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Very interesting to see the history of the Manhattan Project and how the atomic bomb came about, although the trial stuff at the end I could have lived without. 
2268	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	"unsurprisingly, all these physicists die of cancer later on  ""Science: we're all about coulda, not shoulda"" -Patton Oswalt"
2269	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	The amount of detail and accuracy is astounding for this format, but the pacing is a bit off.
2270	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	I don't get graphic novels that just have talking heads. I thought this was pretty dull.
2271	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	"Fallout: J. Robert Oppenheimer, Leo Szilard, and the Political Science of the Atomic Bomb is a biographical graphic novel written by Jim Ottaviani and illustrated by the team of Janine Johnston, Steve Lieber, Vince Locke, Bernie Mireault, Jeff Parker, Chris Kemple, and Eddy Newell, with a cover by Jeffrey Jones, which is a concise biography of J. Robert Oppenheimer and Leo Szilard – members of the Manhattan Project.  Leo Szilard was a Hungarian-German-American physicist and inventor. He conceived the nuclear chain reaction in 1933, patented the idea of a non-fission nuclear reactor in 1934, and in late 1939 wrote the letter for Albert Einstein's signature that resulted in the Manhattan Project that built the atomic bomb. Julius Robert Oppenheimer was an American theoretical physicist and professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley. Oppenheimer was the wartime head of the Los Alamos Laboratory and is among those who are credited with being the ""father of the atomic bomb"" for their role in the Manhattan Project.  Szilard fled Nazi Germany in the 1930s and began trying to convince others of the possibilities resulting from atomic fission and its resulting energy, both good and bad. Throughout the 40s, he and other scientists worked to find the funding and material, especially uranium, for their experiments in the field, all the while arguing over whether the rules of science and publication of data had changed because of the war.  The focus of the book then changes to Oppenheimer's leadership of the Los Alamos laboratory, where the need for secrecy becomes even more pressing. It’s especially galling on those who escaped from the prison of fascism to be restricted under military oversight. It’s also a stretch for those used to operating on a theoretical basis to worry about how to accurately build such a devastating weapon.  Later, Oppenheimer participates in an inquiry to determine whether he is a security risk. Various incidents that have been reported against him and his response are run in text columns, juxtaposed against the images of his testimony to the panel. His clearance was revoked, preventing the ""father of the atomic bomb"" from working with the Atomic Energy Commission.  Fallout: J. Robert Oppenheimer, Leo Szilard, and the Political Science of the Atomic Bomb is written and constructed rather well. This graphic novel captures little-known elements of scientific history in an easy to understand, enlightening fashion. By making the names behind the facts into more three-dimensional people, Ottaviani sheds new light on how war affects science. The illustrations did a good job in depicting the text rather well as there are multiple artists, it is difficult for me to differentiate which style belongs to which illustrator.  All in all, Fallout: J. Robert Oppenheimer, Leo Szilard, and the Political Science of the Atomic Bomb is a wonderful biographical graphic novel that portrayed the effects on how war has on life – in particular science."
2272	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Jim Ottaviani has a kind of corner on graphic science books, some biographies, and I have read a few of them. As with most of his science comics, Ottaviani, who has worked in nuclear physics, focuses here on science and scientists. I read this because, since the anniversary of Hiroshima, I am trying to read and share more on this topic. This may be the most important of his books I have read, given the urgency and timeliness of the topic, but also the most disappointing for a few reasons.  We meet lots of famous, esteemed scientists who helped develop the weapons that murdered hundreds of thousands of people in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and continue to be built today. The threat of nuclear holocaust is once again in the news in a couple different ways in the Ukraine conflict, so we have to be educated on it and trust people in power are educated about it.  Fallout connects the science to political science, but it is less cogent and clear than other works on the subject. It also features scratchy, hard to decipher drawings of scientists, many whom look like each other. In an important subject such as this, you need clarity in the story and we just don't get it. To have several authors drawing the same scientists makes things confusing. The lettering is sometimes hard to read, and the story meanders. The panels are not invitingly arranged, sometimes so dense with writing that you can't figure what is going on.  We get lots of suggested reading and information in the appendix and we are told much of what happens in the comics story actually happened, but I defy anyone to make a quick summary of it. Maybe better just to read the Pulitzer -prize winning The Making of the Atomic Bomb by Richard Rhodes? But I want to get this information about the nuclear warfare into the hands of everyone, and few will read a big book about bombs. Still, I know most of what is happening in the book and find parts of it intriguing, and maddening. How can the best and brightest have led us to the brink of catastrophe, once again? This one just wasn't as useful as I wanted it to be.
2273	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	While it’s not awful, the book suffers from an art style that is so inconsistent (yet distinct) that it can be difficult, in many scenes, to determine which character is which.  Additionally, the book often gets mired down in scientific terminology and discussions which unnecessarily complicate the reader’s understanding of the story.  Overall, the book is not bad, but does have some flaws which cause it to be a difficult read to stay engaged with.
2274	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	This was kind of hard going towards the end, and it’s not the easiest format to read, if you’re doing a graphic novel just stick to that don’t mix in big sections in tiny writing. I guess I just got annoyed by it. 
2275	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Just imagine how interesting this book might have been if I understood even a lick of the science!  But settling for the human moral drama and political infighting was more than rewarding enough to make this worthwhile.
2276	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	The amount of research that went into this graphic novel is insane. The details described in the footnotes wowed me.
2277	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	I am familiar with graphic novels as fictional entertainment but was pleased to find a second history or quasi biography done in this medium. George Takei’s biographical account of him and his family’s time in an internment camp was my first. On the one hand, “fallout” was a cool idea and is well suited to this format. However, I wasn’t too happy with the all black and white illustrations. I was expecting colour or, at least, some colour. Nope. Worse, I felt there were too many artists and thus too many styles. It didn’t mesh well for me. A couple of the subplots were so-so but the writing and story were fairly food overall. It was handy to have notes clarifying matters and noting artistic license but I would have run them as footnotes rather than endnotes. Still, it’s an interesting read and fairly accurate. 
2278	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Didn't understand what was going on. Too many characters. Not enough background.
2279	Fallout:_J._Robert_Oppenheimer,_Leo_Szilard,_and_the_Political_Science_of_the_Atomic_Bomb	Not really my interest area at all, but gotta give stars for how thoroughly researched this is. Pretty text heavy, but not uninteresting, particularly if you enjoy history. A bit scattered and disconnected from the story of the impact of the bombs, if that's what you're looking for. This story is strictly the experiences and perspectives of the main scientists involved in the Manhattan project.
2280	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Physics is apparently a field full of curious characters, like Feynman and Einstein, each probably meriting comic(al) biographies like this. So, why Bohr? What brought folks together in this celebratory endeavour to spread the word about A Danish family man who gave mumbled lectures and was allergic to brevity?  Well, maybe because Bohr's theoretical 'intuition' was legendary. Or because his politeness reached levels of comedy. Or because he hung out with Einstein, met Roosevelt and Churchill and lived in the age of the Manhattan Project fighting for 'an open world' where there would be no fatal nuclear secrets - where the spirit of friendly cooperation in the international scientific community would guide diplomacy and policy around the bomb. Bohr's work contributed to Manhattan, but his image remains free of the taint of it: he was never on any of the wrong sides.  For science peeps there is nostalgic heart-warming pleasure in reading about Bohr and his Copenhagen theoretical physics institute, which so tirelessly welcomed and supported students and guests from around the world. The working mood of the institute (from which the 'Copenhagen interpretation' of gloriously weird double-slit results emerged) was called der Kopenhagengeist, one of, Ottaviani says, 'playful intensity or intense playfulness'. I wonder if the mood at CERN could be described that way today...  One of the things Bohr liked playing with was the Tippe Top   which, when spun rapidly, stands on its small end, because physics. And while we're enjoying ourselves, can I commend this book for highlighting and giving credit where due to woman physicist Lise Meitner for linking E=mc^2 to the mass defect in nuclear fission? Thanks.  But maybe this tribute is so necessary because Bohr failed. He failed to convince Einstein to accept quantum mechanics. His Nobel-winning model of the atom is wrong. His philosophical books and papers are read little. His pleas to the president and the prime minister were dismissed, and the world missed a brief opportunity to save humans and the Earth from the insane threat of nuclear weapons. Every teacher knows that failure, if we have the heart and spirit to recover from it, is the best way to learn. In retelling the tale of Bohr's frustrated endeavours we hand on the flame of hope. 
2281	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	"This book had a lot of fantastic moments, but they didn't add up to a great book. The storytelling is uneven -- at times impatient and not thorough enough, and at times going a bit overboard with detail. In my experience it doesn't ever take a solid shape (perhaps it is one of those substances that is part liquid and part solid depending on how it is being handled.) That said, I am glad I read it and appreciate the care given to drawing Bohr's social and intellectual communities and his fairness and willingness to be wrong on scientific questions while not backing down on his ethical beliefs.  Here are some bits of dialogue I enjoyed: Schrodinger to Bohr: ""Well Bohr, you surely must understand that the idea of quantum jumps leads to nonsense...After all, where is an electron while it's jumping?"" Bohr: ""The Question has no meaning. You might as well ask what happens between the pictures in those 'comic strips' they print in American newspapers.""  Bohr goes on to say ""You see, you are not thinking, you are just being logical. It must not be forgotten that just because we cannot visualize them doesn't prove there are no quantum jumps. Our concepts which we base on direct experience do not apply.""  Schrodinger: ""I don't want to discuss the philosophy of forming concepts. I just want to know what happens in an atom."" (p. 145)   I really appreciated this goodreads review:  https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..."
2282	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	"This book is such a poor entrant in the ""Graphic Novel as Biography"" category that I'm fairly sure I won't ever be tempted to try one again. There are excellent and moving graphic novels out there and this is not one of them. It teases you will all sorts of interesting tidbits: things like his philosophical debates with Einstein about the nature of Quantum Mechanics and God, or his ideas that led to the liquid drop model of the nucleus, but gives you none of the details you'd like to know. I'm left at the end thinking I might like to read a real biography of Bohr. The best thing about this book is it's list of references that lead me to potential books that might actually tell me something about the life of Niels Bohr."
2283	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	They had me at the first page. With inventive and interesting layouts by, I assume, Leland Purvis, who seems to be the foremost of the many artists who worked on this graphic novel, it's an endlessly thought-provoking study of quantum physics in the twentieth century, the rise of the Nazis and their implications for European science and scientists, and of the character of Niels Bohr: a serious, funny, gentle genius.  I didn't understand the physics or the math, but I understood the humanity of it.
2284	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Jim Ottaviani and Leland Pervis have written a decent book in Suspended in Language. It is primarily the biography of Theoretical Physicist Neils Bohr and through him the development of Quantum Physics. Of Quantum Physics one of the most important concepts is that if you think you understand it, most likely you do not. Over all this is a good enough graphic text, but it is too deliberately disorganized and cross purposed. The intent seems to be to have the flow of the story somehow reflect the leaps and counter intuitive nature of the physics begin described. A brave notion that ultimately works against the goals of storytelling and explanation.  The business of teaching physics is daunting. In my High School it was the single most feared course in the curricula. Because so much of it obtuse and bounded by difficult mathematics colleges commonly have special Physics for Poets classes. Add to that the fact that the boundaries of physics have moved from the visually demonstrable, such as action and reaction to the obviously impossible action at a distance; absent both higher math and a very focused mind and a student can be reduced to merely taking the lectures on trust.  Action at a distance, which this books demonstrates as a proven fact involves actual experiments wherein two matched particles are moved very far apart and an induced change in the properties of one is reflected by a change in the properties of the other. There is nothing in conventional, non-quantum physics that can explain this result and a necessary implication is the end of cause and effect. I cannot recommend that you take this a proof that a human does not need a parachute or similar device to safely jump from an airplane flying at altitude. In fact there is a very short, mentioned one time comment that that cause and effect still seems to operate at levels above the sub atomic.  When the reader is not being directed to jump ahead to read up on something in the text or to shift back while an earlier situation is explained, Suspended in Language does several things well. A large cast of mathematicians and physicists; their scientific contributions and something of their fates is presented. A surprising amount of very difficult material is rendered comprehensible and the complete package is not boring. All these people and events occur during the rise of Nazi Germany and World War II. This historic context is important to the story of these people and how they came to be involved in the development of the Atomic Bomb. This too is managed by Ottaviani and Purvis.  Very few physics teachers have the luxury of presenting the thinkers behind the theories as humans. Suspended in Language is at it best in helping the reader to understand the people as well as their science. Neils Bohr foremost but many others are presented as real people and not just producers of abstract thought. Something of the politics of academia and of international science is also likely to be new points of view for the reader.  Page for page much of the artwork is beautiful. Unfortunately it can also be cluttered and confusing. If a picture needs to be footnoted to explain that a pictured event never happened or that people drawn into a scene were not part of that discussion, then that pictures and text are unnecessary of counterproductive.  There is much to learn and much to admire about Suspended in Language. Unfortunately there is also too much that is unnecessary or misdirecting.
2285	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	"This had a lot (a LOT) of physics in it, as it should. And the author is a former nuclear engineer, as I discovered from reading the blurb in the back. Both of those things combined should have probably scared me away.  But damn it I love science comics whether I fully understand them or not (and I don't expect to understand Quantum Mechanics any time soon, so it's fine) and this was no exception. There are also some ""endnote"" comics from other artists that describe in fuller detail some of the anecdotes and such mentioned throughout, and those were just extra-sweet frosting blossoms on the Niels Bohr cake.  Although this was a bit dialogue/caption-heavy, I can't imagine it being any different. Bohr in real life was very dialogue-heavy. And he accomplished- even via failure- so much that merits recognition, that cutting chunks out would have made the biography feel incomplete or rushed; two things that do not seem to describe Bohr at all."
2286	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	 This graphic novel provides a lot of information on many key figures in the world of science that lived at the same time as Bohr. Also, it provides a lot of the various theories. It is not light hearted reading. 
2287	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Well done bio of Neils Bohr. It's done as a graphic novel, so it's a bit sketchier in places than I would prefer. I particularly enjoyed reading about his work and philosophy during World War II. I may go out and get a full fledged biography of the man, based on my reading this.
2288	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	The life and science of Niels Bohr in comics form. The science was very heavy and difficult to read, which made it a chore to get through. I usually like Ottaviani, but this one's just okay.
2289	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Suspended in Language: Niels Bohr's Life, Discoveries, and the Century He Shaped is a biographical graphic novel written by Jim Ottaviani and illustrated by Leland Purvis, which is a concise biography of Niels Bohr – a Danish physicist and Nobel Laureate.  Niels Henrik David Bohr was a Danish physicist who made foundational contributions to understanding atomic structure and quantum theory, for which he received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1922. Bohr was also a philosopher and a promoter of scientific research.  As Bohr was finishing college, physics was entering a revolutionary state. Einstein and Planck had introduced relativity and the idea that measurement couldn't be exact. Building on their foundation, Bohr used his invention of quantum mechanics to improve the classical model of the atom. He became a leader in theoretical physics, with just about every Nobel Prize winner coming to his institute. Later in life, he moved into political work, helping intellectual refugees on the eve of World War II and using his celebrity to argue for arms control after development of the atomic bomb.  Suspended in Language: Niels Bohr's Life, Discoveries, and the Century He Shaped is written and constructed rather well. Purvis' distinctively thick line is well-suited for a biography, since it foregrounds the figures in a panel, drawing the reader's eye to them. The visuals and text combine in such a way that it's difficult to separate the two, unusual for a book with separate writer and artist. The narrative is rather playful with noted physicists as characters who talk to the reader when needed. This approach suits Bohr's character, as a writer who loved language and argument, and the theories he was essential in developing.  All in all, Suspended in Language: Niels Bohr's Life, Discoveries, and the Century He Shaped is a wonderful biographical graphic novel that portrayed the life of Niels Bohr, a physicist and Nobel Laureate.
2290	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	I think this is my favourite of the several GT labs science histories I've read. I have been exposed to the story of modern physics several times in my reading, but never gone so far into Bohr. What was of special interest was the sections on Bohr's attitude to nuclear weapons and despite helping with the a-bomb and realising it was going to happen, he worked really hard on solving the next issue of arms control. Although the threat of nuclear terror defined the next half century amongst the major superpowers, Bohr started the conversation on arms control early and i'm sure helped get people thinking about and building the political mechanisms to prevent nuclear disaster.  I also was fascinated by his idea of the nucleus of an atom as a liquid drop and that that theory came out of his doctoral thesis on surface tension- the great theorists hold so much together. His wife was a champ and she gets a lot of due here and the relationship with einstein is fleshed out satisfyingly as well. Great stuff.
2291	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	This comic-strip biography written by Jim Ottaviani is a very informative biography of the father of quantum mechanics, Niels Bohr. “Suspended In Language” starts by his work through his phd and continues by his relationships with famous physicists like Albert Einstein, Werner Heisenberg, Wolfgang Pauli,… Also some interesting discussions with some political figures like Winston Churchill. Half of the book is focused on his role in the Manhattan Project and nuclear war. In my opinion, Ottaviani did a great job connecting several topics of physics and illustrating the various relationships between physicists at that time. However, the storyline is not very straightforward, it's disorganized and looks like it's written deliberately complex. On some pages, the content is very dense and difficult to read, however in general, it was a good read. 
2297	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	"I've made contact with stories of Bohr through Feynman's stories, and more recently in The Wizard War (http://amzn.to/1YklftC), where R.V. Jones talked about Bohr's failed effort to convince Churchill that the Allied powers needed to release the details of the bomb, trust the diplomatic power of science and free sharing of ideas, and nip the ""arms race"" problem in the bud. Churchill seemed to think that the bomb was just a bigger bomb, not the game changer that nukes are; he also thought that Bohr was trying to force the UK and US to give their secrets to the Russians.  I love coming back to the graphic novel format. I want MORE detail, now, but this book is a beautiful overview of Bohr's life, and the dramatic changes he lived through (and caused, at the center of the development of quantum mechanics!) in science and tech.  Read this one, dig deeper with the books in the bibliography if you find you're hooked on world war II era physics, then go get Feynman (http://www.amazon.com/Feynman-Jim-Ott...) by the same author."
2298	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	To his colleagues, Niels Bohr was the “Pope of Physics.” Razor-edged minds like Dirac, Franck, Frisch, Gamow, Klein, Mott, Oppenheimer, Pauli, Planck, Schrödinger, and others -- many of whom would later become Nobel laureates themselves -- to proud to say they had studied with Bohr. He was a poor lecturer because he never knew where his thoughts would take him and would often stop in the middle of an explanation when a new idea occurred to him. Without him, there would be no modern physics, no quantum mechanics, no basic understanding of the atom. And while Bohr sometimes entertained theories that turned out to be wrong -- which he was the first to admit -- even Einstein was wrong in areas where Bohr was right. Ottaviani is a very uneven graphics chronicler of modern science and scientists, but this is a very well thought out book, as successful an attempt as I have seen to explain Bohr’s thought (as well as his humane and internationalist personal beliefs) and the basics concepts of quantum physics.
2300	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Graphic novel about Niels Bohr. I think I truly realized while reading this book that there is no such thing as objectivity or absolute truth. Truth is defined by the information we have at hand put through our best attempt at a rational calculation. However, without the right information, the method of calculation is irrelevant; the answer is only truly reasonable to ourselves, or those who have the same set of information. I realized this when the novel was describing the difficulties Bohr was having proving very simple concepts in math. It was impossible. He ended up writing thick textbooks to try and prove the most simple concepts that we take for given, and even then he failed.
2304	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	I'm not a regular graphic novel reader. I did enjoy this quite a bit and found it very well researched and presented. It was a pretty fast quick overview/review of Bohr's life and impact. I wonder how well this would fly for someone with no background knowledge of physics (especially 20th century physics). Well, I guess I do agree with the author's assumption that everyone should have the working knowledge! :)
2305	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	I thought this book was awesome! I didn't understand a lot of science and mathematics but it was fascinating all the same. There were quite a few laugh out loud moments, I especially liked Einstein stealing tobacco from Bohr when they were sharing an office in Princeton! Niels Bohr led an amazing life.
2306	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Suspended in language started strong and had my interest, but simply couldn't maintain it. I wanted to like this so badly, but never found a rhythm I could get into. Most importantly, for my rating, it made Bohr seem befuddled and I eloquent to the point that you wondered whether he actually had anything worthwhile to say at all. Is this actually what Bohr was like? 
2307	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	megan, remember me talking about this. did you ever read it? you have to. really really have to if you haven't. the drawing is not my favorite but it is in no ways bad. it is the story that drives this work. i love biography graphic novels, but you don't see them too much.
2308	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	A graphic novel about niels bohr. I don't know enough physics to reall grasp everything that's going on, but it's hard to walk away from this book without feeling afection and admiration for who he was and what he did. recommended for folks who have a working knowledge of physics.
2309	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	This is a great book on Bohr by Jim Ottaviani, for my money the best writer of science comics out there. Good as pop-sci, good as biography, good as comics. I liked it so much that I'm teaching it in my comics course next semester. 
2311	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	A graphic novel about the life of Niels Bohr... How could I not love that?
2314	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Now I want to read Copenhagan, by Michael Frayn, which has been sitting on a shelf for years. Add it to the to-read pile...
2315	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	I think this was only the second graphic novel, after Maus, that I've read. The dialog rides simplistically over a lot of interesting physics concepts, but what should I expect?
2317	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	"A ""bio-comic"" that starts out very shaky but gradually achieves a genuine emotional resonance. Very interesting book."
2319	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Interesting topic. However, Ottaviani (as usual) is a little clumsy in his approach. His graphic novels just don't read very well. 
2321	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	The best part about this is the physicist beatdowns between Bohr and Einstein (though I freely admit I don't understand all the math).
2322	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Another excellent work from Jim Ottaviani, that inroduces you in an enticing manner to further study of this great Dane.
2323	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Parts of this were really good, but other parts very confusing. I still don't think I understand what made this man so important except for his push towards peace.
2325	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	this was so far beyond me, i enjoyed what i understood.
2326	Suspended_In_Language:_Niels_Bohr's_Life,_Discoveries,_And_The_Century_He_Shaped	Detailed, well written and enjoyable. Jim Ottaviani makes the complex simple and has captured Niels Bohr's work and life beautifully
2327	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I didn't know anything about Rosa Luxemburg before picking this up and so it was pretty cool learning more about her life. I totally want to read more about her ideas and thoughts in the future. Not a huge fan of the art style though, and I think that's quite a large part of reading a graphic novel. Also the rhythm/transition of things wasn't that great and just didn't work for me. This one's a 3.5 stars for me. 
2328	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"""The capitalist state of society is doubtless a historic necessity, but so also is the revolt of the working class against it – the revolt of its gravediggers""--Rosa Luxemburg, April 1915  Rosa Luxemburg, 1871-1919, was an economist who wrote her doctoral dissertation on Polish industrialization. She was a Marxist theorist, a philosopher, and a revolutionary socialist of Polish-Jewish descent. She became a German citizen and was murdered there by opponents of the revolution she never gave up on. She was a woman of passion, having written many emotional and insightful essays, letters, tracts, and there were also many lovers in her short and full 47 years. She was a member of the Communist Party who troubled Lenin and Trotsky and the Russian Revolution with serious critique. She was one wild woman who made politics and economic justice come alive as possibility.  It was Emma Goldman who said ""A revolution without dancing is not a revolution worth having,"" but Red Rosa might just as well have said it.  Kate Evens is author and artist extraordinaire in this work of love for Verso Press. She is herself a wonderful writer with obvious political commitments--it's a work maybe best described as a fictionalized biography, since she has to make up dialogue and imagine some interactions, but the work is based on copious research and comes complete with many pages of notes and a bibliography. As seriously political as this comics biography is, there is also in it much poetry and poetic imagery, of which the cover of the volume is one dramatic example. Evens's revolutionary writing also dances, as Emma and Rosa would observe and approve. It has to be one of the most ambitious and very best graphic works in the last year. On my best of the year list, for sure.  I highly recommend it to lefties everywhere who maybe once knew her work (she has 14 volumes of collected work, of which The Accumulation of Capital is one volume) and feel they need a refresher course (as I did), or those who have heard her name and need an introduction. Feeling the Bern? Rosa was one of the great intellectuals of socialism/communism/Marxism a century ago. Solidarity forever!  Kurt Weill:  Red Rosa now has vanished too. She told the poor what life is about, And so the rich have rubbed her out. May she rest in peace."
2329	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	It was hard getting through this book, especially during the second half. There was just too much text on nearly every page which I think is never good for a graphic novel. The text was too dense and the information too detailed. Rosa Luxemburg was an interesting woman and the author obviously did tons of research but I became bored by this excess of information. In the end, I felt like I was reading a textbook and the art, which consisted mainly of talking heads, got lost in this overload of text. I’d recommend to read a proper, well-written biography instead.     
2330	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	It is said that the socialist flag is red in colour not just because of its links of communism, but also because it's a celebration of the blood of all the martyrs who lost their lives for its cause. Rosa Luxemburg was one such brave, badass martyr. She was Polish, Jewish, an economist, a philosopher, a socialist revolutionary, a political refugee and disabled. Most of these things should have kept her within the margins of the society at the time, but Rosa always strode onwards and upwards.  This is a marvelous little book, the illustrations are splendid and Kate Evans has put in great efforts to do justice to the various aspects of Rosa Luxemburg's life. What I found to be particularly brilliant was the way in which Evans wrote and drew about complex economic and political theories that Luxemburg developed. Luxemburg was specifically interested in solving the problem of capitalist expansion and was among the first (along with Lenin) to link capitalistic growth and imperialism and she did it several decades before the word 'globalization' was even coined.  Accounts of Rosa Luxemburg's life generally focus too much on her political theories while hardly talking about her personal life, but Evans here has wonderfully, aesthetically portrayed Luxemburg's love life and erotic interests. There's so much attention to details, that this book is certainly NSFW. If you think you can educate your children about Luxemburg's life and ideas through this book, boy, have I got bad news for you.  Luxemburg lived in a deeply patriarchal society but she always rebelled against it, and this is an important aspect that's depicted throughout the book. Luxemburg was also a wonderful human, amazing writer and a cat mother. The illustrations of her cat in this book will leave you smiling with adoration.  I finished this book more than a week ago, but had to collect my thoughts to write this review because I was heartbroken over Luxemburg's execution. If you are into graphic novels, I cannot recommend this enough.  image:   image:   Here's a link to an excerpt from the book in which Rosa Luxemberg explains capitalism using spoons.
2331	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"""With every fly that one carelessly swats and crushes, the entire world comes to and end. In the refracting eye of a little fly it is the same as if the end of the world had destroyed all life.""   I think that the story of Rosa Luxemburg is criminally unknown. Sure, people interested in history and in socialism know her name, but when one thinks of socialist revolution, the names of Marx, Lenin and Trotsky are usually the ones that come to people's mind. Her life and her work is not part of so-called common knowledge. I truly hope books like this one change that, because the story of this tiny yet monumental woman is both very important and incredibly inspiring.  Kate Evans did a wonderful job of putting Dr. Luxemburg's life on the page, perhaps more in a introductory way than one might wish, but nevertheless, this gorgeous graphic biography is the perfect way to get to know Rosa Luxemburg.  Born in Poland in 1871, little Rosa had a lot of odds stacked against her: she was a girl, she was Jewish and one of her legs was significantly shorter than the other, leaving her with a permanent limp and obligation to wear thick soled shoes her entire life. But Rosa had a very strong will and mind, and she never let anything stand in her way. She read constantly, to feed her intellect, but she also couldn't help but notice the class discrepancy she saw in her school and in the streets of Warsaw. At 15, she joined the socialist movement and eventually moved to Zurich, where she was allowed not only to attend university, but also earned a doctorate. She relocated again, this time to Berlin, where she continued her work to bring about a revolution that would make a better world not just for the workers, but for everyone. She was jailed more than once for speaking against the monarchy and other powers in place, other members of the socialist organizations with which she worked tried to push her around, but she never gave up the purity of her principles: equality and peace for all. Even when holding on to her integrity led to her death...  I want all little girls to hear about Rosa - little boys too, so they never underestimate girls who are smaller than them. And I want grown ups to know about her as well, so that we can all remember than the actions of one tiny person can sometimes move the needle of history and not underestimate the power of our voice and actions.  Beautiful."
2332	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"Rosa Luxemburg was a young, poor Jewish girl in Poland who rose to become a titan of leftist thought. As a girl, Luxemburg refused to accept her ""place"" in life, always questioning injustice and falling into the local socialist society. She was an intellectual powerhouse.  But Luxemburg didn't just sit in her room all day, theorizing and writing utopian critiques of capitalism. No, she did. She wasn't allowed to go to university in Poland, so she moved to Zurich, earning a doctorate in economics. She fell in love with Leo Jogiches, the son of a capitalist who was dedicated to destroying the system that made him rich. She refused to constrain her sexuality or her desires, beginning and ending relationships when she was unhappy. She spread her message with an incredible fire, swaying beefy German factory workers with her simple, yet persuasive arguments. She outargued the intellectual titans of the German Social Democratic Party, raging against the abandonment of revolution in favor of reformism. She rampaged through central Europe, tirelessly spreading her message of liberation for decades. And somewhere in the middle, she wrote a treatise on the political economy, The Accumulation of Capital, that has only become more popular with age.  She spoke out against the foolishness of the First World War, lambasting the socialist-in-name-only deputies that voted for the ""inevitable"" war. Their decision dumbfounded Rosa. How could socialists, committed to the international liberation of the working classes, declare nationalist war, pitting national working class against national working class? She left the party she had dedicated her life to with disgust.  In 1918, after the war destroyed Europe and millions of innocent working class men died because upper class warmongers incinerated their souls to fuel their war industry, Germany erupted into revolution. Rosa refused to play it safe, and she started a newspaper, Die Rote Fahne, and fought constantly to sway public opinion towards revolution. After the new ""social democratic"" president was placed in power by the defeated German military, her former party turned on her. She was brutally murdered by militiamen, her corpse thrown into the Landwehr Canal in Berlin.  Kate Evans' phenomenal graphic autobiography introduces Rosa Luxemburg – the woman, the revolutionary, and her works – to a new generation, one that participated in the 2011 world uprising and which will suffer from precarious employment for life. Evans' work is an experience, both emotional and arresting, beautiful and terrifying. She portrays the raw, the real Rosa. She was by no means perfect, but young people deserve to know Rosa's story.  Phenomenal, riveting, inspirational, revolutionary Rosa Luxemburg. Highly recommended."
2333	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is a fairly introductionary graphic novel biography of Rosa Luxemburg. I didn't know much about her love life before reading this, but those parts were the ones I found the least well-done actually. There's other ways to describe a love life than through the same sex scenes each time.  Apart from that, some of the wording was a bit strange. It felt like a book for children at times, because the other seemed to want to sum up Rosa Luxemburg's economic and political theories for newbies, it seemed. I'm not sure if she managed to do that well and I also wonder how many people will read this book who don't already know the basic ideas of marxism and socialism. If I didn't, I'd probably found those part confusing.  My last criticism would be that the art is not 100 % my style. I think if I'd been sold on the drawings completely, this would have been a 5 star book despite the other flaws I mentioned. As it stands it's a fairly well-drawn and interesting overview of her life.  I appreciate that at the end of the book there's an explanation of things the author changed for narrative reasons and some contextualisation for some of the scenes.
2334	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	First book of the year, and what a fantastic read it was. 
2335	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Now while I have certainly found Kate Evans' graphic novel Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg for the most part very enlightening and also historically, culturally interesting (if not even totally significant, as especially with regard to English language reading materials, there are in my opinion still far too few accessible to and for interested lay readers books available on the history of Socialism and Communism in Europe and on important and necessary to be familiar with activists such as Rosa Luxemburg), I also think that for a graphic novel Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg actually tends to be a trifle too wordy and often almost annoyingly textbook like in scope and feel. But that having been said and yes, because I am indeed quite massively interested in the topic and in Rosa Luxemburg as a person, I was still and always engaged enough with Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg to continue reading until the end, even though I do certainly and strongly believe that Kate Evans' featured text is truly a bit physically and emotionally exhausting to peruse at times, and yes, also with too small a letter font for my ageing eyes, not to mention that I also do think that the artwork for Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg is much too caricature like for my aesthetic tastes (and with in particular most human figures, including Rosa Luxemburg herself, generally appearing as being depicted by Kate Evans in an uncomfortably exaggerated manner).  And indeed, I would also say that Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg is definitely NOT a book for younger children (and has probably been geared primarily towards adults). However, Kate Evans' text as well as her accompanying comic book like illustrations are in my opinion and certainly still more than suitable for interested and engaged teenaged readers above the age of thirteen or so (and perhaps even above the age of twelve), although I do have to leave the necessary caveat that from where I am standing, Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg is also pretty thoroughly pro-Socialism and Communism (even though also not really overly extremist or radical), even if Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg does definitely feature a very good and informative general introduction to Rosa Luxemburg, to her life, to her achievements, to how she was callously and brutally murdered (but also showing and demonstrating how Rosa Luxemburg was one of the very few left wingers always staunchly opposed to WWI and that she, that Rosa Luxemburg also relentlessly strived and fought for women's education and basic gender equality, basic human rights for ALL, including women).  Finally, I certainly and also do wish that when we were studying political systems as well as WWI and WWII in grade 12 social studies (in the early 1980s), there had been a book such as Kate Evans' Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg available for our teacher to use in class with us. For Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg definitely does give a much more engaging, interesting and also a much easier to understand portrait of Rosa Luxemburg than the rather bone dry and generally tediously boring textbook we were using in class, where, and even though the portrait of Rosa Luxemburg was actually and thankfully politically balanced (neither too positive nor too negative), both Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht were basically still just dealt with in a few short and unimaginative, not very detailed sentences.
2336	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A charming biography with some lovely artwork. It takes awhile to get going, and feels slightly imbalanced (occasional narratorial intrusions or jumps in time are not unpleasant but they do seem somewhat arbitrarily scattered), but when at its peak, it is quite touching and beautifully conveys a sense of Luxemburg's personality. I especially loved the various nude scenes, hairy legs and all -- a really excellent example of how graphic novels can portray a woman's body in a way that feels intimate without being objectifying or prurient. It might not be the most effective introduction to Luxemburg's work -- it's a little hard to get a grasp on her ideas, or more specifically, what her particular innovations or disagreements with others were. But the book offers plenty of quotes from her writings and certainly gives you a good sense of her overall beliefs. Her life story proceeds in a fairly typical step-by-step fashion: Evans clearly has no compunctions about zooming past the less eventful bits. But there isn't much in the way of intellectual biography here: you don't really see where her ideas are coming from, or how her life experiences influence them. Although there is a nice moment where Evans steps in to say that she will depart from the convention of defining women's lives through their relationships to men, this doesn't seem like a radically new form of biography.  Overall though, a very pleasant, and often quite beautiful (in various ways) book.
2337	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	My first read of the year, and it was terrific. Super-interesting graphic biography of Rosa Luxemburg, a remarkable woman whom I knew of, but not enough. She left Poland for university in Switzerland because women could attend there, and earned a doctorate in economics, before becoming a leading figure on the left in Germany - opposing the First World War when the Social Democrats on the whole did not. The author identifies some of Luxemburg’s theories as especially prescient, particularly around the relationship between empire and capitalism. She had a very eventful life driven by her convictions, her powerful intellect, and her passions - quite something. It’s a wordy graphic biography, but that appealed to me, and was backed by thorough notes and a bibliography. 
2340	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"This is the ""graphic biography"" of a person of deep political conviction and passion, living through one of the most turbulent periods in history, and treats its subject with respect, depth and gravity. So it was with some surprise that I found Evans deftly weaving humour and romance into her story. Rosa emerges as a fully rounded person, her faults and inconsistencies shown alongside her humanity and fortitude.  Evans packs in a lot of information, both into the main work and into the notes, which to me is a great strength of the book: I read this because I want to know! The depiction of Rosa's assassination, and the brutal curtailing of her life and work, moved me to tears. Unequivocally 5🌟"
2341	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Yes and no for this effort. Yes for the biographical detail, no for the Marxism 101 lessons. Yes for the airbrush-and-ink landscapes and buildings, no for the scratchy, ugly characterisations that sit in those. Yes for the way real quotes are highlighted ready for the student, no for the way the narrative voice becomes equally as polemical, and breaks into inventing a non-existent 'us'. Yes for the gloss of the narator's font, no for the again scratchy and ungainly speech bubble design. There's a gloss to some of this, and a lot of intelligence in the design and writing, which will imbue it with qualities those few remaining non-graphic novel readers will accept, but I did get left with the impression that much like its subject it wanted things it couldn't have, and broke from its basic tenet in order to get them.
2342	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An engaging and moving biography of an incredible woman, and a nice intro to Marxist thought.
2343	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Received from Netgalley for an honest review  I don’t really read a lot of historical fiction or historical non-fiction books about the World Wars anymore. But what lead me into reading this graphic novel was the cover. Long hair with a trail of tanks and soldiers marching and exploding, almost forming some sort of loose braid, there is a style like this but I can’t name it, I will put a link to a picture here. I wondered what was this was about and who is Rosa Luxemburg.  She was a charismatic and brilliant woman who wanted to dismantle the system of capitalism that oppressed her people and other minorities, during the early 1900s, when World War I and World War II would bring about a destruction that would take her with it. She led the German Revolution and was part of a Communist party. She was a communist leader that set her foot out in an arena that would soon persecute her for her Jewish background.  I will admit that I still didn’t understand the whole concept of socialism, so I guess I should pick up that Karl Marx book if I ever get interested in it for whatever reason. But the whole graphic novel was built around her teaching and conceptions of capitalism, how it controls the universe, and how it brings about poverty and societal restrictions due to the poverty. The funny thing is that socialism and capitalism have their pros and cons, despite that one might sound better than the other, there’s always some sort of oppressive con that will make people change their minds. Like, for example, look at China. I don’t really like to talk about this because I don’t know much, I only know from articles and blog posts written by Chinese people who live there and know better than someone like me and most Americans. A lot of the Western media’s protrayel of China is kind of influenced by Yellow Peril and the racist idea of “All communist countries are opressed desert wastelands that must be saved by me White saviour.” No I’m not denying that these things happen, a lot of screwed up things happen there, it’s a communist, imperialist country, much like us, except we’re not communist. But China is a perfect example of communism gone wrong. Which is why I say that there is a pro and a con to communism and it shouldn’t be romanticized.  It’s a saddening how after Rosa Luxemburg died, the communism that she was trying to build turned out to be something worse, as the people who took over became dictators and inflicted just as much harm than the government before them. But her influence has lived on, her outspoken actions and feisty attitude definitely lives on in many of today’s feminist activists. Yes, I actually consider her a feminist figure since what she had done was rare for a woman at that time, especially since Jewish people were constantly in hiding from persecution.  I wasn’t a fan of the artwork I will admit, some of it was beautiful in its accurately bleak and sort of scratched in look, I don’t know how to explain art, but anything looks better than Attack on Titan. The flow of the story was a little odd sometimes, the way the scenes ended and then changed were a bit abrupt to me. But the writing was engaging, the tale of her life, switching from her political side to her dysfunctional love life, was utilized in a way to portray a political figure in their highest and lowest. Rosa’s writings were also melded into the text to form two narratives, the personal and the outer. I recommend this as a light read for those who like to read World War I and II non-fictions.  Rating: 3.5/5  Entire post at Notes on the shore
2344	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	It took me ages to read this. Red Rosa isn't the worst comic out there and as a biography it surely is interesting - the problem is that the format and structure of the comic is hideous. There's no rhythm whatsoever and the transitions don't work at all. The structure of the panels is heavy and there's basically too much text in the panels. The panels are stuffed and never ever use so many different fonts! The hand written texts are hard to read and unsteady. They look smudgy and cheap. The font doesn't fit with the basic fonts (like Times New Roman) that feel detached as a comparison. It's really hard to grasp Rosa's life as nothing is explained and it wasn't the best decision to just recite Rosa's writings. There's no need to write everything just the way she did, just telling it with less words would've made wonders. Also, the comic is mostly talking heads, which is quite boring.  The artwork is tenuous at best. The heads are out of proportion and the line work is smudgy. The digital coloring doesn't fit and looks cheap - black and white is OK, but the lack of tones makes the comic look half made. Basically Evans isn't good enough to pull this through. The comic lacks in every aspect and the only good thing is the cover. I didn't really get a picture of Rosa or what she did, and I think most people will think the same. The topic is interesting and we do need more comics about strong women, especially those that have actually existed. The structure would need a lot of work as well as the art not to forget the fonts. In a way this isn't so bad, but for the fact that it messes all the things that make it a comic, I'll only give one star.
2347	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"So this has definitely been my favorite book of 2016. I discovered it on Goodreads and soon after requested it through the interlibrary loan request of my university (and it was fulfilled by Fordham University, ~3,000 miles away--thanks so much, libraries, you're the greatest!). And soon as I finished it, I got online to buy a copy for myself so I could share it with my friends and family. To be clear, this is the first book I have bought for myself in rather a long time, I think in over a year--usually I check books out, get them from the many little free libraries around town, get them at thrift stores or buy deeply discounted used copies (I also have an extensive backlog of books I bought years ago or were gifts). I just had to own it, because it's beautiful. The first person I loaned it to was my social theory professor, and she wants to scan part of it to share with her classical theory classes.  Okay, so what's it about? Rosa Luxemburg! Who is Rosa Luxemburg, you ask? She was an theorist, philosopher, and revolutionary in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. I had never heard of her--but when I told my parents I was reading a book about her, both of them were like ""Ohh Rosa Luxemburg, so cool!"" I felt like I did that time I decided to check out a VHS called Cosmos and discovered Carl Sagan's wonderful program about our universe, called them up to gush about it, and they were like ""oh yeah I remember that show."" Well why didn't you share it with me, guys?? Why didn't you tell about Rosa Luxemburg! Because she is rad.  And not only is Rosa great, but this book is too. Remember when I gave 2.5 stars to the graphic biography of Emma Goldman and cited ""the format"" as what the issue was? Yeah, well, this is the same ""format"" but has none of those issues. This book actually covers Rosa's politics--including an excellent section where Marxist theory is covered as Rosa explains it to her brothers at the dinner table. But the fact that we get great information on Rosa's politics, opinions, and political projects does not come at the cost of her biography as a person, either. Various relationships are depicted, including good friends, lovers, family, political allies and adversaries, and my favorite--her pet cat, Mimi (Mimi is so adorable, too). Her letters are quoted extensively so we get a great idea of what was going on in her mind. This book also didn't run into that choppiness I've come across in other graphic biographies, where characters and situations are suddenly introduced only to be just as suddenly vanished without explanation. It flows really nicely.  And and and!! There are tons of notes in the back! It's amazing! For almost every single page, Kate Evans has multiple notes that tell you where she is pulling quotes and events from, and if the ""real life"" version differs at all from the story in the book, or if she's speculating and what that's based on. It's fantastic. It was so cool to be able to wonder ""did that really happen??"" and be able to turn to the back (which I did very often) to see that, yes, it did, or information on where the author got her information. She's pretty meticulous too--there's a note saying that in the graphic biography, she has Rosa cut her hair in a different year than she cut it in real life. I really appreciate this aspect of the book; it's thorough and well cited and I know exactly where to find more information should I want it.  Oh and it made me cry too.  Anyway I am so glad I discovered this book and I heartily recommend it. Rosa is an inspiration and her life story is fascinating, remarkable, and touching. I can't come up with a single complaint about this book which, if you read my reviews often, you will know is quite rare. ;)"
2348	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Very text heavy. It’s such a great synthesis of theory, history, and commentary. The art work is good, but the splash pages really stand out. 
2353	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A personal and political biography of Rosa Luxemburg, from her childhood in Poland, through her early activism in Switzerland, to her revolutionary activity in Germany before, during, and after the war, and her eventual murder by the police under the socialist (in name only) government of Friedrich Ebert in 1919.  This is a really good book. You get a real sense of Luxemburg's brilliant mind and unfailing courage. She was a revolutionary's revolutionary, during a time when erstwhile revolutionary socialists were all too eager to give their support to an imperialist war. Luxemburg consistently opposed the war, and was jailed for a year for attempting to organize resistance to it, and again in 1916 for over two years.  Germany was ripe for revolution in 1918, and a successful revolution there would likely have changed the course of the 20th century. But, thanks in large part to incompetence on the part of the new German communist party, and self-serving decisions on the part of the Soviet government, as well as quick, violent, and decisive action on the part of the German government, the revolution was an uncoordinated disaster, and had failed by the time of Luxemburg's murder.  Sadly, many of Luxemburg's manuscripts were destroyed by looting soldiers following her death. Much of the surviving work can be found at The Rosa Luxemburg Library.
2354	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	4.5 stars I enjoy learning new things about historical figures. I had heard Rosa Luxembourg’s name,but knew virtually nothing about her. Her strength, intelligence, gumption, wit and passion were inspirational - especially at a time women were little more than “furniture” to look nice and sit quietly at the turn of the 20th century. Katie Evans showed that Rosa was outspoken and brave, while still being a lover, daughter, friend, cat-lover and champion for the underdogs in politics. Evans drawings are intriguing and true to life, and her subtle artist appearances added to the enjoyment of this graphic novel.
2355	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"Graphic novels and history, what's not to love?  This is a great introduction to the life of one of THE greatest Marxist thinkers. Luxemburg's political writings are used really well in the book but so too are snippets from her personal letters. A huge chunk of the book is directly quoting letters, speeches, and texts.  Rosa Luxemburg exemplified a kind of humanism that is deeply admirable, and paired it with an intellect which- as it seems from reading this- put many of her peers to shame.  ""I want to affect people like a clap of thunder...to inflame their minds with the breadth of my vision, the strength of my conviction and the power of my expression."""
2356	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A wonderful graphic biography of Rosa Luxemburg. Uneven at times, and it took me a little while to really feel engaged with the text, but by the end I was immersed in the times and places this book represents and I could appreciate what a powerful, passionate, brave, complex, challenging, imperfect, stunningly vibrant person Luxemburg was.  Here are two wonderful GR reviews that discuss the book in more depth.  https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...  https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
2362	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"I'm glad something like this exists to teach readers about the life of Róża Luksemburg, a prominent Polish-Jewish revolutionary socialist, but Kate Evans' A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg is not the best way that it could have been handled. At times it is beautiful and poignant, plus it remains really historically accurate as far as fictional representations of factual events go, however the execution of this graphic novel leaves much to be desired.  The first and most glaring issue is the author's apparent cultural ignorance regarding Luksemburg's background. Róża's origin as a Jewish woman is rightly given plenty of attention, with information about the discrimination of Jews in the Russian Empire (including the colonised Congress Poland). On the other hand, no effort is made to illustrate the plight of the Poles – which is extremely relevant, considering Luksemburg was Polish. The cultural life of Poland was brutally subjugated by the tsarist authorities, with restrictions on use of the Polish language and religious freedoms; the heroine of this comic actually attended lessons studying the works of Polish poets and writers in secret at her school, because this was not permitted by Imperial Russian laws (none of this is mentioned in Red Rosa). Róża later wrote on this, publishing in 1893 a text against the Russification of Poles in the Russian Empire and in 1900 a brochure condemning the Germanisation of Poles in the Prussian Partition; again, Evans makes no note of either of these.  Sadly, this Western-centric view continues to be expressed throughout, for example in the Anglicised/Germanised spelling of Róża Luksemburg's name. The correct native way of writing her name in Polish is not ""Rosa Luxemburg"", but in fact ""Róża Luksemburg"". Why is her brother's name spelled correctly as ""Józef"" (though ""Mikołaj"" is misspelled as ""Mikolaj""), but her own not? It would make sense for Evans to use ""Rosa"" in conversations between German-speaking characters and in the context of German-language publications, but in earlier parts of the story set in Poland it simply comes off as ignorant. This is also true for Luksemburg's interactions with Leon Jogiches, as Polish was the native language for both of these individuals. Their correspondence via numerous letters, which have since been translated to German and English, was originally written in Polish as well. It is sad that today, even when uttered in non-German contexts, Róża Luksemburg's name is so often Germanised/Anglicised into Rosa Luxemburg. Unfortunately, Evans contributes to this cultural erasure in Red Rosa, though at least she does express the protagonist's love for Polish poetry.  Artistically, the comic is quite striking in its style – it often resembles the technique of caricaturist drawings, wherein heads of characters are disproportionately large (though here not to a comical extent). Not everyone will enjoy this look, but I personally found it appealing and quite unique with a certain charm to it. Some of the panels are even astonishingly illustrated, making the reader pause to admire them. The amount of text, however, is sometimes just too much. Fitting the life of an important historical figure like Luksemburg into 180 pages of comics is no easy task, especially when the author at the same time tries to be as educational as possible about the Marxist ideas of Róża's work within. For this Evans should be praised, even if the end result is a graphic novel that sometimes reads more like a novel. There also seems to be a good grasp of Luksemburg's ideals here, except for the display of contemporary nationalist struggles at the end as if they were some kind of legacy to Róża Luksemburg's life (she, in fact, opposed nationalism in all its forms, whether it was of the oppressed or oppressing nations).  Overall, Red Rosa is a fairly accessible and gripping retelling of events throughout the life of a truly amazing person, though not without its flaws. And yet even its extensive endnotes and afterword cannot fix the culturally ignorant approach towards the oppressed Polish origin and identity of Róża Luksemburg."
2363	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I knew nothing about Rosa Luxemburg's life before picking up this book. I found her history fascinating. She fought through many social stigmas and limitations of her time for women. She wanted equality and rights for all people. Her mind was bright and organized; she never lost sight of her beliefs and the people. Her ideas revolutionary and still pertinent today in many ways. Her dedication to her beliefs were amazing. Not many would keep the course as she did.  The graphics were simple, yet effective. I liked how they portrayed Rosa and her situations.  A well told story.
2365	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A graphic biography of Rosa Luxemburg - a “philosopher, economist, publisher, writer, organizer, political leader and martyr”.  I was not familiar at all with Rosa Luxemburg so was hoping this would be a good introduction to her life. In that this book succeeded - I got a crash course in her life which kind of broke my heart (and exposed my ignorance about this period of history).  The book quotes a lot of letters and economics theories written by Luxemburg which were fantastic. The letters especially were poetic which I wasn’t expecting from an economist. But Luxemburg was so much more as I learnt.  However, the graphic novel was denser than I expected. A lot of panels had a lot of text - either from the letters or from her economic theories. I had to pause and reread a lot of the excerpts which made for slightly painful reading given the cursive font etc.  I am not sure the art was effectively integrated into the story as well as I would have expected. The black and white style was good - it’s not meant to be photo realistic but neither is it detailed enough to add a lot to what is happening on the page for me.  For me, this graphic novel felt more like “the illustrated, abridged works for Rosa Luxemburg”. I mean it was effective enough to make me want to go back and read more about her and her life. It’s definitely an ode to the power of the woman and her life but I am not sure the format was effectively utilized.  As an alternative example, see March, where the art added to the words on the page. Here there are more illustrations of what you are already reading.  I find this a difficult book to think about. As a nonfiction text, I learnt a lot. The letter and the work of Luxemburg itself were intriguing enough. So as a biography I think it worked. However, as a graphic novel it didn’t utilize its format as well as I hoped. So do I judge as a graphic work or a biography?  In the end I am splitting the difference and going with a strong 4 stars here.  It works as a good introduction but the strongest parts of the book were the letters themselves which is a testament to the woman herself.
2366	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I come from a family of French socialists, and have had a lifelong interest in strong female figures throughout history, so it seems strange that I'd never heard of Rosa Luxemburg before today, but I can think of no better introduction to learning about her life than Kate Evan's graphic novel Red Rosa. Told mostly through Rosa's own words combined with Ms. Evan's really very lovely art, Red Rosa recounts the life of Rosa Luxemburg, a Polish-Jewish socialist theorist, and goes through both the personal and political sides of her life and how the two relate to each other. Though some minor events in Rosa's life have been changed for the purpose of simplification (as well as good old dramatic effect), they are small enough to not detract from the overarching narrative as well as the examination of revolutionary socialism and Marxist theory. These more theoretical aspects of her life, particularly those relating to economic systems that remain in place today, are not only presented in their original historical context (though when they are, they are told very clearly and succinctly so I've actually understood more so than I ever did in class), but also as how it relates to today's socialist and capitalist economic systems. The art is charming, with a simplicity that allows for a lot of character expression, as well as some really beautiful full page spreads as World War I, doubled with Rosa's eventual imprisonment, is retold in a mostly visual montage of war and pain that is just compositionally exquisite and emotionally charged. All in all, I'd definitely recommend this book to anyone engaged in social activism, especially as it relates to economic struggles, as well as to anyone who is interested in history and the interesting women we seldom hear about otherwise. I'll definitely be sure to check the artist out in the future.
2367	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Near perfect introduction/primer to classical Marxism. Theoretically concise and clear, historically riveting and heartbreaking. A love letter to socialism through and through.  You know the writer's good when they can explain dense concepts like alienation, exploitation, labour power, use and exchange value, money as a general equivalent, commodity fetishism, the tendency of the rate of profit to fall, imperialism, primitive accumulation, proletarianisation, the reserve army of labour, and parliamentarianism in only a sentence, a paragraph, or a page. I might come back to this review at a later date and explain these concepts, but you're probably better off just tracking down a copy of this book from your local library. It's a breeze to read.  Also, I'd never known Rosa Luxemburg was, on top of being a theoretical powerhouse, a thirsty mf and an ally to animals. We need more life-affirming socialists to look up to. Feral and caring beings who sublate the dreary dialectic between tragedy and farce.
2368	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A passionate, engaging, thoughtful, and very informative graphic novel.  Red Rosa offers a rich biography of Rosa Luxemburg, smoothly combining her personal life with her political career as activist, Marxist theorist, journalist, and revolutionary. Kate Evans ambitiously includes a generous amount of dialectical thinking - indeed, this book could serve nicely in a course on leftist political theory. Yet the novel is also emotionally powerful.  The art is very good, emphasizing the physicality of bodies and historical specificity, with expressionist touches and inventive page layout.  Strongly recommended.
2369	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Oh Rosa, how disappointed would you be with the state of the world today? Where are our modern leftist heroes?  This is a fairly basic introductory text on Rosa Luxembourg but includes enough of her texts to give readers the opportunity to find additional texts that cover this period of history and Rosa’s life.
2372	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"I have finally finished. Rosa's legacy is deep and vast and the book painted a basic picture but at times, jumped over gaps that the author assumed you had in your background knowledge of Rosa. I had to read up a lot to fully understand dialogues and jumps in the narrative. Kate Evan' best work is towards the end of the novel when Rosa's tragic end is portrayed. Evans' drawings are bleak and she does a great job of using visuals to haunt the reader of this tragic and murderous end of woman who was anincredible advocate for the workers, and common people. Page 168 onward are incredible. I suspect Evans' wrote this book to eventually get to these last 10 pages. Haunting and emotional visualisations . Evans' also does a great job of linking Rosa's final words to the global uprisings that have since played out: pg 179 we see the Hong Kong uprising, the Arab spring and other indigenous peoples standing up to reclaim what was taken from them over the centuries of Imperialism. Erotic images were also lovingly drawn and imprinted a softness in the woman who was such a fighter. She was also a lover and vulnerable in her relationships. The body language depicted were voyeuristic and very intimate. In other pages, empowering, huge buildings loomed over the already physically small Rosa. Evans does a great job here - illustrating the great forces that worked against Rosa and her revolutionary ideas. I think Rosa would have liked this book. I only felt it was not the best book to start in learning about Rosa. But that is behind me now. I will visiting her grave this weekend, and honouring a powerful woman who left a mark on our thinking and whose hopes and dreams are still relevant today. ""Ich war, ich bin, ich werde sein"". And so her memory lives on."
2374	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I feel like I need to start reading Luxemberg and Marx ASAP. I’ve always dabbled in saying I’ll seriously sit down and read them but I never do. Time is short nowadays but they’re definitely getting pushed to the top of the list. (I should make a reading list instead of mindlessly scrolling through my goodreads for my next book).  Red Rosa is a graphic novel I’ve been wanting to read for a long time now and I’m glad I’ve finally had a chance too. I enjoyed this more personal view of who Rosa was as a personal and the difficulties she faced during her activity in the socialist party. I never knew about her upbringing or more intimate relationships and I was sad to see how she was treated.  The mini Marxist lessons on capital were really neat and I actually did learn things I never really considered. (The yearning to read Marx is growing).  A really great novel about Rosa Luxemberg. If you’re looking for a primer on who she was and what she stood for, I’d suggest starting here if you’re a bit afraid before jumping in the water in the more difficult texts.
2375	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I loved reading about Rosa, and learning about her ideas. It was cool to follow her developing her thinking, as history played out around her. The art was good, and some of the ideas for the illustration really cool. The way her thinking was told together with the development in europe gave a sense of urgency, and brought feeling to the story. It did really touch me.  But the book neither goes deep into her personal life, nor goes deep into her thinking. In trying to cover everything, not much is said about anything. For a beginner, it moves through ideas to fast, for someone knowledgeable, it is all to shallow. I think the book would have benefited, narratively and ideationally, from stretching the story a bit; adding more pictures and scenes to explain the same ideas.
2376	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Rosa Luxemburg's life was truly revolutionary; a disabled, Jewish, diminutive woman born into an age of straitened options for women generally, she was nevertheless possessed of a ferocious intellect and equally fiery spirit for effecting change and her actions and martyrdom have made her a hero to the left. Kate Evans' sensitively illustrated graphic biography does a great job of making Luxemburg's complex theories more accessible, keeping her story fresh and relevant and showing that far from the bookish, humourless agitator she is sometimes perceived as, this was a woman who truly loved friendship, nature and laughter - as well as an active romantic life. 
2379	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Very informative biographical graphic novel - personally, I'm not the biggest fan of the book's artwork in general, but some illustrations were actually stunning. There is a lot of Marxist and socialist theory in this as well, which takes away from the 'novel' aspect, but I did enjoy the explanations and theoretical aspects a lot.
2380	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	It is tempting still to talk of the new legitimacy of graphic works – fiction and non-fiction – but Rius’s Marx for Beginners first appeared in English in 1976, some time after its original Mexican publication, spawning a huge number of graphic texts in politics, philosophy and social theory. What’s more, all manner of political tendencies have for many, many years used graphic texts to promote and publicise their ideas: Kate Evans’ excellent biography of Rosa Luxemburg draws on a noble tradition of using the visual to make accessible otherwise challenging stories.  Luxemburg was a significant figure in turn-of-the-20th-century socialism. Born in Zamoćź, Poland in 1871, by her early 20s she had completed a PhD in economic history at the University of Zurich and had thrown herself into socialist politics, primarily but not exclusively in Germany. Her principal theoretical contribution is through an analysis of imperialism as essential to the growth of capitalism, and the incompatibility of capitalism with other economic forms as a crucial element of this imperialism. In the age of globalisation, this view is widely accepted – although different tendencies and outlooks use different language to account for this process – but at the turn of the century this was and 120 years later remains a major contribution to political economy. She was also a compelling tactician, sceptical of the vanguard party as the sole controller of tactics and of the ‘dictatorship of the proletariat’, an advocate of reform and revolution as mutually constituting an entire way of struggle and staunch opponent of World War One when many socialists fell in line with their national governments. Her story then is one of economics, political tactics in revolutionary moments (Russia/Poland 1905; Germany 1919) and of factional disputes between tendencies in socialist politics – a challenging story to tell.  But we know from Luxemburg’s letters that she had a rich emotional and psychological life, writing beautifully in places of the emotional effects of natural world. She also has a series of intense and passionate romantic engagements, about which she also wrote in letters. These, often missing from biographical treatments of Luxemburg (I am very fond of Paul Frölich’s 1940 biography, but as a friend and comrade this is a political biography – devoid of most of these humanising aspects despite its great personal insight and emotional power) play a big part of Evans’ treatment, although always politically contextualised. Evans makes excellent use of texts from Luxemburg’s work, both the political texts and the personal, to provide the textual narrative that interacts with visual to give a rich and evocative sense of Luxemburg’s life – evocative because there is so much we don’t and probably can’t know.  Aside from the graphic accessibility, the thing that sets this apart from many discussions of Luxemburg is that it treats her on her terms. One of the things about dying young (Luxemburg was assassinated by the proto-fascist Freikorps in January 1919 aged 47, with the major events of 20th century socialism and communism still to come) is that she was appropriated and abused by most of the major tendencies on the Left. Various of the Trotskyist tendencies invoked her as an ally given her work on spontaneity and rejection of bourgeois-democratic revolutions; Lenin and Stalin depicted her as an ally (willing or unwilling) or as acting under pressure from German Bolshevik’s – a group that it is hard to accurately define in 1918/19 in Germany, but that’s another story. Evans rejects these appropriations and depicts Luxemburg as her own woman, a thinker and activist inspired by Marx but not a fundamentalist (this approach allowed her vital work on imperialism). This adds a level of integrity and agency often missing from the disputed imagery of the historical Luxemburg. Evans goes the extra step and invokes the integrity and honour she invokes in her depiction of Luxemburg as a necessary element of current struggles.  The art work is evocative in and of itself, in monochrome with excellent grey tones throughout, clean and uncluttered, and the lettering almost exclusively clean and clear – there are a couple of cluttered frames towards the end when the revolutionary moment is upon them, but that might also be a visual clue to the muddle and uncertainty of those days. The cover is superb, with Luxemburg, who generally rejected violence, hanging her head as battle wags in and on her hair. There are two places where Evans breaks the fourth wall, both to point to the contemporary relevance of Luxemburg’s theoretical work.  Visually, politically and conceptually this works well (right down to the extensive references – there are almost 33 pages of extracts and annotations to sustain and support the biography). May there be more work like this.
2381	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A little confusing to follow at times, but a great introduction to Rosa Luxembourg. It made me realise there's a whole chunk of German history I either don't remember or wasn't taught at school!
2382	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is a brilliant and accessible graphic novel that explains both Rosa Luxemburg's life but also her ideas. She was a brilliant writer, speaker, and organizer within German socialist circles. She explicitly linked militarism and capitalism in her writings during the Great War. Her writings have become very important as a possible path of socialism from below, as opposed to the socialism through elections or socialism by small cadre. The book spares no detail from her life as a poor Jewish girl in Czarist Poland to living internationally with a lively intellectual life and love life, before becoming an activist in the SPD, often butting heads with its more moderate leaders. Definitely give this a read! 
2383	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Not sure a graphic novel was the best way to get this information 
2384	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Absolutely brilliant use of graphic novel form to communicate key information around an important historical figure on the international Left - should be required reading for socialists and communists around the globe.  “I want to affect people like a clap of thunder... to inflame their minds with the breadth of my vision, the strength of my conviction and the power of my expression.”
2385	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"Content notes for nudity, sex and execution.  And according to Wikipedia author and illustrator Kate Evans was born in Montreal, Canada, but raised in Surrey, England. She studied English literature at Sussex University in Brighton where she became involved in political opposition to the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994. From 1995 to 1998 Evans dedicated herself to environmental activism, providing cartoon reportage from a tree house on the route of the Newbury Bypass for The Guardian newspaper. In 1998, Evans wrote, illustrated and published her account as Copse: the Cartoon Book of Tree Protesting. She's also published books on breast feeding and refugees. Evans lives in Somerset, UK, with her spouse and two children.  What kinds of keywords came to mind while reading? Sexposition, marxism, politics, revolution, world war one, and Poland.  The description on Goodreads is "" Rosa tells the life story of philosopher, economist, publisher, writer, organizer, political leader and martyr Rosa Luxemburg in full-color, graphic form. The story follows Rosa from her family life in Jewish Poland—where she became the leader of a general strike at age fifteen and was exiled from her homeland at eighteen—to her immersion into the then largest radical party in the world, the German Social Democratic Party, to her founding of the German Communist Party and leadership of the German revolution of 1919.  This beautifully drawn graphic life gives 'Red Rosa' her due as an iconic radical, but also portrays a fascinating woman with a rich love life, struggles with physical disability and an abiding love of literature and theater. Rosa will contribute to the growing understanding of one of the twentieth century’s greatest revolutionaries.""  As far as the writing and the art goes, while there are many things to like I found the pages to be a bit too wordy. The font also felt a bit needlessly complicated. But otherwise, the style of both the art and writing were good. The character design did make Rosa and her life seem very approachable and there was a decent amount of body hair sprinkled in.  Gender and sexuality, while still well within the hetero binary, was certainly a focus of the book in a way that still feels fresh compared to my schooling. Which set the bar extremely low by focusing largely on the white male perspective of history and sees women (the only other gender mentioned) as little more then vessels for child bearing. Rosa is allowed to both love and care, set limits, and have strong and well articulated political wisdom.  Class, while an obvious motivating factor for Rosa and company, felt like it was less central to the narrative of the book.  Evans does cover Rosa's childhood hip displacement and the way commitment to a cause can take a toll on one's body.  As far as discussions of race, we do see the groundwork for Germany and world war two being laid.  Zooming out a little bit, I should note that the book does include extensive notes, which is always a good thing IMHO. Plus a conclusion that loosely ties Rosa to all the things that were going on at the time of the book's publication. Which is also something I appreciate. Nothing is worse, obviously, then a book pretending all our political problems are in the past.  While I had gone back and forth on actually ever reading this book, I am glad a friend insisted and even went so far as to lend me their copy. If you haven't already, I would encourage you to pick up this and Dangerous Woman (a similar profile of Emma Goldman). Four out of five stars."
2387	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"I had a bit of an issue with the ""conflation"" of characters, as the author put it, in which words someone else said had were put in someone else's mouth or someone was made to be a composite of several other historical figures in order to maintain narrative flow. This is clarified in the notes at the end of the book. But precisely because the narrative flows very well, unless you stop at every page to turn to the notes to see where the conflation or changes were, you might well miss it and reading the notes at the end, after reading the story, means that you might not catch it. So it's a bit odd, as it were, the ""creative"" nonfiction part of the whole thing, even if the author is upfront about it.  I also didn't quite get why in some instances the faces and figures were rendered with broad, crude lines that looked unfinished or rushed while the landscape and the background were always illustrated with clean, delicate lines. I was trying to see if the change in art corresponded to a particular moment of tension or change or emphasis in the narrative, but no--it seemed pretty arbitrary.  Otherwise a riveting and inspiring read and people complaining about the ""Marx lessons"" in this--well, it's the best part."
2388	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A must read during these turbulent political times of ours. Reading about the evolution of Rosa Luxemburg as a socialist thinker is fascinating. I admire her continual pursuit of knowledge, her fight for justice and liberation from capitalism even at the expense of her personal safety and happiness. I also think there's something to be said for Rosa as a truly prosaic soul, a person whose poesis has unfortunately not survived the generations of leftist writing that succeed her. That sense of poetics is something worth recapturing, because it emerges in the bigger pictures and smaller pictures of life that make analysis possible. For example, her ability to empathize with a bull being abused for labor during WWI, and her subsequent ability to weave animal rights into her notion of capitalism, even if only for a few sentences, is powerful beyond measure.  In terms of the graphic novel, its masterfully illustrated. I applaud the author/artist for showing dimensions of Rosa's life that are not often talked about: her struggles with romance, her relationship with her pet cat Mimi (my favorite as an aspiring leftist cat lady), and her appreciation for nature.  This book is definitely worth the time for the journey it takes you on.
2389	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Wonderful depiction of Rosa Luxemburg's life and times, from Rosa's personal and intellectual history to the tumult, violence and sadism of German society which would boil over in the decades after her death.  I have to admit I was slightly skeptical of the format in the beginning, but the book's praise turned out to be well-deserved: after the predictable opening pages featuring Rosa's childhood and youth, Kate Evans doesn't shy away from any aspect of her protagonist's radical life. The graphical story is thoroughly annotated with biographical and theoretical sources, many being Rosa's own writings.  My knowledge of R.L. was limited to the Wikipedia article, plus a couple of online texts. Red Rosa has given me a quick but potent insight into her contributions and relevance today, and a motivation to read more of her political/economical stuff and to try and live up to 1% of her clarity and courage.
2390	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This was too dense, the font choices were especially hard on the eyes, and ultimately I still didn't understand ALL that Rosa Luxemburg did for her nation. I was into it enough to get that she was a slight of a girl who also had a disabled leg that made her stand out (including her hair). She wanted to learn and challenge and that made her stand out even more. She was also Jewish when it wasn't safe to be Jewish.  She challenged the ideals and status quo, had sexual relationships that were much-discussed to have been included in somewhat graphic detail since it was part of her essence, and she was a force.  But all of the intricate details were lost on me in trying to maneuver through this graphic novel. Too much detail and not enough feeling about her power when they chose this format to tell her story.
2391	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Why take an inspirational story and make it a history lesson? The author wanted to tell the story of a fighter, a woman doing something very unique at the time for someone her gender and religious affiliation, but instead she chose to focus on Marx details. It felt like I was being recruited more than learning about Rosa, which is frustrating because I really wanted to learn about her. Yes, Marx beliefs are obviously important to her, but it doesn't mean you need to give a Marx lesson to tell her story. Also, I did not expect to see tits and dick. There goes the idea of using this for high school students. Another issue, was the illustrations. While the bodies were great (I LOVED that Rosa looked lumpy and real) the faces looked all kinds of fraked. This novel needs work. 
2392	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An absolutely stunning and moving graphic biography of influential socialist theorist and activist Rosa Luxemburg. Kate Evans not only outlines Luxemburg's contributions to socialist thought and role in socialist politics, she creates a fully-rounded portrait of Luxemburg's identity, including her romances, friendships, attitudes and desires.  Evans also uses narration and even breaks the fourth wall when necessary to add detail and to help a modern audience see how we can still draw lessons from Luxemburg's life and writings to apply to modern struggles.
2393	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"As a work of non-fiction, I enjoyed this quite a bit. However, as a comic, I had some reservations. The art was really not to my taste: people were drawn oddly deformed, with bulbous heads that were way too big for their bodies. Dialogue text looked hand-drawn, but anything from the ""narrator"" was simply typed in Times New Roman and laid on the images. It all looked kind of strange and unpolished.  However, all in all, I appreciated reading about a woman who seems to have been largely written out of history (at least, there doesn't appear to be a lot written about Luxemburg in English)."
2394	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I knew nothing about Rosa Luxemburg and now I know a fair bit, thanks to this pretty hefty graphic biography of her life and activism in the early 20th-century. I am so inspired by the women in history who refused to conform to social convention and restrictions, and instead lived by, fought for, and acted on their beliefs to the great benefit of society...and the detriment of their own life, at least in Rosa Luxemburg's case.  (There is also a lot of information about capitalism, socialism, history, etc. that I found overwhelming at times and fascinating at others.)
2395	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Read this for my study circle, I loved how Rosa's teachings were implemented along with the telling of her life. It's pretty binge-able and does a good job introducing you to the Luxemburgist school of thought
2396	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Boy do I know some democratic socialists who could stand to read THIS lmao 
2397	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	– Before Rosie the riveter, there was Red Rosa. –  Something that sucks about being a bleeding-heart lefty is that you always have to deal with big bushy beards. Marx - beard, Engels - beard, Trotsky and Lenin - all beards! As a result, it’s a rare treat to find a biography like Kate Evan’s Red Rosa that reminds me that early 20th century communism wasn’t all about facial hair.  Red Rosa is a graphic novel. It starts at the very beginning - when Rosa Luxemburg was a child in Zamość Poland. It follows her development into a political revolutionary, but doesn’t shy away from her family dramas, her love interests, her illnesses and - of course - her cat.  Through careful research, and a bit of artistic license, Evans manages to capture the essence of what life was like for a woman so fierce, so contrary, but so fantastic in her time.  When I first opened the book I was ready to have my mind blown with political genius. I was ready to get my riot-gear on and fight with Rosa for her cause! [insert commie catchphrase here]. And it’s not that the book doesn’t do that - in fact we get to sit in on some of Rosa’s Marxism 101 lectures - but that’s not the reason I’d tell you to read it. No, what I love most about Red Rosa is the sex.  When Rosa first spends the night with her partner Leo, Evans uses both her curvaceous artistic style and some fun Freudian tropes to guide us into the intimacy and ecstasy of young love. That’s not to say it’s excessive. On the contrary, we are given only one, full page frame to experience that moment. And like any climax, it’s over with the flip of a page.  Don’t get me wrong, though. Evans doesn’t depict Rosa as some sexy, socialist goddess. Despite her outstanding story, Rosa is simply one of us. She has rolls on her hips, and her breasts sag when she takes off her corset. She has armpit hair, and pubic hair and she cries when she is sad. Although she was so much more than her body, it’s delightful to see Rosa as a real human.  Much like Marjane Satrapi’s Persepolis, the visual medium of the graphic novel means our imagined protagonists can visualise in front of us and come to life. Rosa was more than just an idea - she was a human.  And that gives us a chance to look at all the outstanding, contrary humans around us. Almost a hundred years since Rosa’s murder, we can see how being a political revolutionary isn’t always about the big bushy beard. In fact, you don’t need to be part of any social or political elite to make a serious mark on the political landscape. In the 21st century, Rosa is reborn in people like Tavi Gevinson, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and New Zealand’s late Helen Kelly. Although Rosa faced different adversities in a different time, Red Rosa reminds us we are all humans, and we all have the power - no, the duty - to change the world around us.  ----------  This review was first published on Narrative Muse, http://narrativemuse.co/books/red-rosa, and was written by Sarah Krieg. Narrative Muse curates the best books and movies by and about women and non-binary folk on our website http://narrativemuse.co and our social media channels. 
2398	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I consider Rosa Luxemburg to be one of my intellectual ancestors, and this was an easy way to read a biography of her. She was a woman of enormous importance, partly responsible for the creation of the Social Democrat Party of Poland, and later was heavily involved in politics in Germany. It's hard to say why she's not better known, although being an unapologetic Marxist, and a woman who was not necessarily considered beautiful, could certainly be factors.  I'll be honest, I do not particularly like the artwork in this graphic novel. It's not my preference. I also did not like the way motherhood, and her desire to be a mother, was critiqued. The feminism of the author doesn't seem to extend to women who would prefer to procreate, and it was even explicitly said that the world is better off because Rosa continued to write and teach instead of getting pregnant.  The best parts of the novel are really Rosa's own words, and the representation of her fiery determination. Even though it's impossible to agree with Luxemburg 100%, (and the author even inserts herself into some of the images, cheekily pointing out that we now know this and that particular theory to be wrong) the majority of her theories have held strong, and only been reinforced by a century's observation of capitalist cycles.  Rosa Luxemburg was a BEAUTIFUL writer and her writings can stand on their own merit, so these segments were the most poignant. I am re-inspired to read the full body of her work. And I have a greater appreciation for the cycle of her life and the danger she lived in after reading this graphic novel.
2399	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is a beautifully produced and detailed graphic biography. Kate Evans has done a fantastic job of bringing Rosa Luxemburg to life and introducing a new generation to one of the 20th Century's leading political theorists and practical revolutionaries. The book records her life from a position of triple disadvantage Jewish in a climate of real anti-Semitism, poverty and a female. Evans charts Rosa's struggle to free herself of the road to slavery a young woman of her position was expected to enter as a childbearing wife. She illustrates Rosa's struggle for education coupled with her growing social and revolutionary activism. The development of Luxemburg's political thought is charted and a comprehensive notes section at the end of the book expand on issues of theory and areas of her life that won't squeeze into the pictured page. Evan's approach is careful to stay close to Rosa the human rather than political icon and the ordinary aspects of her life add to the power of her revolutionary and political zeal. This is an outstanding work and great incentive to dust down the heavy looking tomes of Rosa's work sitting on many a bookshelf and give them a go.
2400	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	3.5 stars  What I learned about Rosa Luxemburg in school was pretty insignificant. I was obviously aware of her name but not that much more. So when I came across this graphic novel at my library I gladly grabbed it to learn more about this woman. Did you, for example, know she received a PhD at a time when access to university was very difficult for women? I did not.  The reason I only give it 3.5 stars is maybe not entirely fair. Condensing the life of Rosa into less than 200 pages of a graphic novel is almost undoable so it feels less organic than a lot of other memoir type things I have read over the years. The author does a good job with this overall but it is just jam-packed to the brim with everything. Also, I guess there are some artistic licenses drawn here (a) with interpretations especially of her earlier years and (b) with merging certain secondary characters in order to fir everything in. The appendix is long and thorough though which is nice.  So overall this is a great entry point into Rosa Luxemburg and the graphics are pretty good imo as well though my favourite illustration is actually the cover. If you look at it closely it has so many details and is utterly stunning.
2402	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is a great way to learn about an important historical figure, time period and series of events without investing a lot of time or effort.  Evans manages to not only show Luxemburg as sympathetic and human, but also shows how astute her economic analyses of bitter, imperial, capitalist Europe were. There's love, friendship, war, revolution, in short a lot of action. It's beautifully told and drawn.  My only reservation is that I don't find Luxemburg as heroic and wonderful as Evans does. Luxemburg was an impassioned champion for revolution and the working class, and she overcame terrible and stupid obstacles to become an educated socialist leader. She was dogged, brave, brilliant and relentless. I don't know enough about the situation to criticize any of Luxemburg's rhetoric, which is not Evan's fault, but i'm still left with the feeling that she had a messianic attitude towards apocalyptic change like so many revolutionaries do.
2404	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This book is a fantastic example of the power and potential of graphic novels as a genre. The text itself is incredibly dense and complex. Evans summarizes multiple books and essays by brilliant philosophers and economists in what amounts to just paragraphs worth of text, yet manages to convey them clearly. And, as we saw with Doxiadis' Logicomix, placing all of this within the format of a graphic novel goes a long way toward making it more digestible and less intimidating. But even more so than Logicomix did, Red Rosa leans into the artistry and story telling possibilities of the genre. There were multiple pages that could have been removed from the book and appreciated as stand alone works of art. My brain is so happy that I learned about this incredible human being and through such a remarkable, innovative medium. Such a beautiful way to celebrate women's history month.
2405	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This book was a great way to absorb the complex and in many ways,~ahead of the present~ ideas of Rosa Luxemburg. An amazing, passionate powerhouse of a woman, Luxemburg was truly remarkable. Not just for her contributions to socialism (which were invaluable), but also for the way she behaved as a woman in that era, and the strong force of female leadership she represented in such a male school of thought. Evans ties Rosa's ideas to present day late stage capitalistic realities, such as overseas manufacturing and middle class consumption, which is an excellent way to realize how truly prophetic Rosa was in many ways. The book details a life tragically cut short, and depicts her death in such a humane way without sensation or ghoulishness. I think Kate Evans did an amazing job! 
2406	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	So brilliant. Everything a graphic novel biography can be. Loved that she used so much of Rosa’s own writings, both essays and letters, in the text. She gives us as holistic a representation of this life, this remarkable woman, as is possible. Well researched and curated. And some great artwork - the panel depicting how her murder would foreshadow what was coming in Germany was chilling. I have to admit a certain ignorance of German history, so I was especially fascinated by the history of pacifist resistance there in WWI. Inspired to track down Rosa’s writing to read more from her directly. 
2407	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	4.5 stars! It's weird to say about a graphic novel but: I was not a huge fan of the artwork, yet I loved everything else. Judging from the other stuff I've read about Rosa Luxemburg, this book covers everything you need to know. This woman is such an inspiration, she had a huge lust for life, a vision for a just and peaceful world, and a grateful appreciation for beauty, even while unfairly imprisoned. I look forward to reading her letters and other texts about her.  Favourite quote:  ''Freedom only for the supporters of one party is no freedom at all. Freedom is always and exclusively freedom for those who think differently.''
2409	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	i had never heard of rosa luxemburg. i haven't read any books about women who were not actresses or comedians and want to expand my reading to include all kinds of women. i like the idea of a historical graphic biography. it used her words, which were easier to understand. the last 20 or so pages are footnotes that explain where you can find full quotes or how the author changed the order of events to make the story more dramatic. i started to read it but reading direct excerpts from das capital are so difficult for me to understand.  all in all i enjoyed this graphic biography.
2410	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Now I know what special is it about comic books. You can deep completely into the world of the characters for one day only - and live through the whole life just in hours. This is a brilliant book in many ways. To begin with it’s beautifully drawn. And then it has so much exquisite irony and sometimes some brutal humor on top of that. It is not always the easy reading though because of detailed complicated Rosa’s political and philosophical views. Anyway my day today was quite a day because of that. Thank you Rosa, thank you Kate. 
2411	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A great biography of Rosa Luxemburg, in comics form. I feel like I really know her now! Red Rosa also provides a good introduction to Luxemburg's ideas, and to the socialist theories and debates that developed during her lifetime. This book makes a good case for why Rosa Luxemburg's ideas (and socialism in general) are relevant today, and is good reading for any socialist feeling confused and abandoned in our harsh neo-liberal times.
2413	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I enjoyed the first half of this book and read it mostly in one sitting. Then I got to the second half and the amount of text on every page became a deterrent. I think graphic novels need to strike a better balance of words and art than this book achieved. I found myself slogging through after an engaging start and wound up skimming the last quarter/third. 
2414	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	It is completely unacceptable, and so predictable, that we’re never told these stories growing up. So many revolutionaries have been obfuscated from our education because they’re anti-capitalist, or women, or Jewish, etc.  In this case Rosa is all three and so much more. This was such an inspiring read. I highly recommend this book.
2415	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This book offing a great idea to understand Rosa's biography. I appreciate how this book captures how persistent Rosa's life principles are; laboring, agitating, and caring. I wish this book could tell me more about Rosa's friendship line with their girls.  However, this book is so much challenging for my eyes. A thick text wrapped on one bubble. Was not a good experienced.
2417	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An outstanding biography of an outstanding person, the life of a giant of the left told in a compelling fashion without embellishment or fiction. Highly recommended reading for anyone wishing to learn about Rosa's life and the importance of her politics & philosophy.
2418	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This book completely took me by surprise. I only had a glimmer of what the worker's and anti-war movements were doing pre-WWI and II. We're taught that these wars were inevitable, we aren't taught about the soldiers, the workers, the students that protested and had a vision of loving their neighboring countries. Full of profound theory, righteous activism, and poetry. Loved. Loved. Loved.
2419	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I’d been looking forward to reading this for a while now. I only vaguely knew who Rosa Luxemburg was before reading this.  Now she is one of my greatest heroes and this is one of the best stories that I’ve read.
2420	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	To my taste, it'd be better if focused on Luxemburg's immensely interesting life and times rather than on her work, but it's still pretty enjoyable and, of course, well written, drawn, and researched.
2421	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This book taught me so much about history, politics, and Rosa Luxemburg’s life. A bit wordy at times but this type of format (graphic novel) can be a more accessible/entertaining way for people to learn about important topics! 
2422	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	an well crafted portrait of an individual who had an outsized influence on the world of political theory. the art is so intrinsic to the story and does an incredible job of distilling Luxemburg’s history. 
2424	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I read this on a whim not expecting much. Figured it would be a cute little graphic novel. Cartoon character giving us a tour of socialism. But instead I was pleasantly surprised. We got to see Rosa the human being. She had sex. She had setbacks. She was a tragic figure ahead of her time. I have a lot of respect for her. She was sassy to the end.
2425	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Excellent graphic biography of a fascinating woman. Both a story of her life and a good beginner’s guide to her work and her theories. Loved this!
2427	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Extraordinary 
2428	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	i cried at the end :( capitalism bad :(
2433	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"Hadn't heard of her but loved learning. She is depicted as ""not traditionally attractive,"" while simultaneously being luminous in the eyes of her lovers and the workers who thrive on her passionate speeches. The artwork balances that gracefully. Her disabilities are honored and repeatedly illustrated, and Luxemburg's words are quoted as often as possible (which I always find respectful). Her family is portrayed as ""financially poor but culturally rich"" -which is rare when most of the people who had the luxury of focusing on writing/theory were wealthy.  Evans presented many theoretical points of view, and the conflict within movements working towards similar goals. The cover illustration is just phenomenal, I get lost in the details every time."
2434	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A very good start for this new year.
2435	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	this made me bawl like a baby 
2436	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Certainly an important book with important info about an important woman, but for a graphic novel, there was way too much text, so that some pages were overly crammed with facts and direct quotes and therefore difficult to read. The illustrations are great, especially the on the cover, which is brilliant.
2437	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Probably the worst graphic novel I’ve ever read, definitely the shittiest looking. It was cool to learn some things about Rosa Luxemburg though, I’ll definitely be seeking out better books about her. 
2438	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I really liked the layout and I loved the little detail from the author to include leg hair.
2439	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Felt a bit like reading a textbook at times and the art isn’t really a style I enjoy, but a lot of research has gone into this and it’s definitely a good starting point if you want to know more about the historical and personal context that informed RL’s life. 
2441	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is a very text-heavy graphic novel, but the content really demands it. Beautifully and thoughtfully illustrated. Well-curated events with abundant additional notes for clarity. This book is worth reading and maybe a rereading.
2442	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The writing relies heavily on direct quotations from Rosa Luxemburg, which works very well especially when the author's art style shifts into more abstract territory. It also includes a long bibliography at the end with added context and such, ideal for anyone who wants to investigate more of Rosa's writing. A very unapologetically revolutionary book and very needed right now.
2443	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I absolutely adored this book, inhaled it and loved every minute.
2444	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The graphic biography Red Rosa tells Rosa Luxemburg's story from birth to death and manages to pack an incredible number of events, political ideas, social comment and personal information about Rosa into just one book. Simply said, I thought it was brilliant. I found there to be a carefully thought out balance between Rosa’s personal and political lives, so that I really got to know her character as well as the ideology she fought for. The black and white illustrations are beautiful and really engaging; they tell their own story beyond the accompanying words. I appreciated how political concepts were explained in reader friendly terms i.e. using accessible images, language and examples; I certainly learned a lot. I do have to add that this book is definitely a pro Rosa, pro left-wing publication. At times, this meant there was a certain lack of balance in perspective but then again, this isn’t the aim of the book. Kate Evans, writer and illustrator, is so clearly passionate about her subject; she brings an incredible, inspiring woman to life for a new audience. I have written more about Rosa on my blog shegatheredbooks.wordpress.com
2445	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	3.5 Stars. Rosa Luxemburg is of course a towering figure of the revolutionary left and this is a really good illustrated guide to her life and some of her theories and battles within and outside the SPD. But this could have been a lot more literary and a lot less textbook style (you can always read other books for that) But: being a german native speaker I know the original german quotes that are used in this book - I should probably have read the german version for maximum impact of Luxemburgs words. 
2446	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I don't read a lot of books about feminist socialists, but when I was given a chance to read and review 'Red Rosa' by Kate Evans, I was intrigued and approached the work with an open mind.  Rosa Luxemburg was a radical socialist at the beginning of the last century. At the age of 15 she was exiled from her homeland of Poland for her part in a general strike. She eventually made her way to Germany where she tried desperately to intervene, as best she could with no vote, in a society bent on war. She was a teacher and writer and eventual martyr to her cause.  The art is at times a bit garish and uneven, but that only makes this feel like a more personal work. It takes a while for the story to get moving, and there are kind of unexplained gaps in the narrative. An odd thing happens when the author/illustrator jumps into the middle of a scene. It's jarring and I felt a bit unnecessary. Still, the story of Rosa turns out to be a moving one, and the book shows her passion for her ideals. The end of the book has an extensive collection of notes to go along with the story. I appreciated the chance to learn more about this outspoken passionate woman.  I received a review copy of this graphic novel from Verso Books and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Thank you for allowing me to review this graphic novel.
2447	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I gave this book a hard time at first glance, the drawing style is not my favorite and the mix of fonts is really aesthetically unappealing (although the reason for the different fonts is that the author uses Rosa's actual letters + writings in one font, her editorial narration in a different font, and the characters' fictional dialogue in another font.) That said, I knew it was a compelling story - the life of Rosa Luxemburg is inspiring and powerful - and I enjoyed the way Kate Evans told it. Graphic biographies are slightly dangerous in that you know somethings are fictionalized or stylized, but I suppose any author can write with a bias and I do think that Evans stayed true to the spirit of Rosa's work. She has done her research, as evidenced by the notes in the back. Evans has Rosa tell the story of Communism and capitalism in approachable ways, and tells her story movingly. I do think this graphic novel should be read *in addition to* Luxemburg's works, or maybe another biography, but it could serve as an approachable introduction to radical politics and the life of a strong, political woman.
2448	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This book quite possibly represents the beachhead of a new genre, one which affectively synthesizes biography & social history, visual art & theoretical overview, sweeping narrative & richly textured manifesto.  Though not the first priority for all readers, I was particularly inspired by the novel's radical alignment of form and content: just as Luxemburg spent her life demonstrating not only the possibility, but the necessity of the co-penetration of analysis and activism, this text not only represents her praxis, but replicates it through its well-woven multiplicity of focuses, bringing energy to political economy and world-spanning context to the most intensely personal moments.  In this and in other aspects, the novel goes a long way to redressing Rosa's under-emphasized influence on Leftist causes. I highly recommend to anyone interested in learning about socialism, feminism, political aesthetics, & the role of history in winning a new world.
2449	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"I loved this book! Out of many choices I kept returning to Red Rosa, eager to discover how much more I would learn about her and her important ideas. On the back cover the publishers call Rosa Luxemberg a ""giant of the political left"". She is not well known as such - Karl Marx, Lenin, Mao, being a few of the well known ""giants"". But she was a woman, outspoken, critical, fearless. A threat to all forms of complacency, all vested interests, including those on the left. In most places in the world where there has been left-wing revolutionary activity, it has been male-dominated. Rosa Luxemberg almost made it through that wall of sexism to the position of leadership she was so well qualified for. This wonderful graphic biography gives us a rich glimpse of this tiny, disabled Jewish woman who was indeed a giant in spirit, and intellect, integrity and passion."
2450	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Found this really insightful. Helped me get a much better idea of who Rosa was as a person and what she really believed in.  Truly felt such a great sense of empathy for her and learning about all of her accomplishments was really interesting. Such a tragedy she was killed.  I'm a bit ashamed to admit I don't read all that much leftist theory. That's why I'm glad the author included so much. Helped develop my ideas about leftism further and cement them. I think leftists should consider how much more accessible and appealing it is to present it in such a way.  I'm not the biggest fan of the art style. It is not the most appealing to me but it is effective in portraying what it wants to a lot of the time. Some of it is really powerful.  Would rate this 3 1/2 but because I can't I'll go with 4.
2451	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"Beautifully captures Rosa Luxemburg's political and economic thought and her love of life and the inspiration she drew from the natural beauty of the world around her.  ""Don't forget, as busy as you may be, to quickly raise your head and cast a glance at those great silver clouds and that silent blue ocean in which they are swimming...take notice of the resplendence and glory that overlie this day...because this day will never, ever come again! This day is a gift to you like a rose in full bloom, lying at your feet, waiting for you to pick it up and press it to your lips."" Letter written in 1916 by Rosa Luxemburg from prison to her comrade Hans Diedenbach fighting in the trenches. He was killed by a grenade before he received her letter."
2452	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An even match of pros and cons. I instinctively mistrust any biography that starts out warning the reader that events have been exaggerated and rearranged in order to capture the spirit of the subject in a short work and maintain the reader's interest. Rosa is a fascinating woman, so I'd prefer to put the burden on the author to capture her honestly, without manipulating events. That being said, it's mostly well done, and it does follow up with loads of historical notes. Sometimes comes off as an Introduction to Socialism course, as if Evans isn't quite sure what to assume her readers are bringing with them. 
2453	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is an excellent way to learn about Rosa Luxemburg's life and the history of the socialist movement in 20th Century Europe. I wouldn't have read a full biography and so a graphic novel was perfect at bringing her to life. Some of the narrative seems to simplify her life so as to get through each stage and move from one event to the next. But the text is richer at times when necessary. Thought the authorial intervention was unnecessary.  I loved the illustrations, she depicts Rosa well at all stages of her life and doesn't see any shame in the female body. I particularly liked the war scenes and when Rosa was in prison.
2455	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Another odd graphic novel, this one a biography of Rosa Luxemburg. What it gets right is a distinct Eastern/Central European urban aesthetic that also visually reminds the reader of Luxemburg's Jewishness, but it gets bogged down in talky blocks of text explaining her economic critiques and the background someone not conversant with the early 20th century would need. There are three panels representing the 1905 Revolution in Russia as a wave that make this well worth a look. 
2456	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I'm not a huge fan of comics, but I loved this book! A graphic biography is really the perfect format for telling the story of someone who was as bursting with love for life and fury against injustice as Rosa — the illustrations really helped make her personality and life story jump off the page. I found myself running the whole gamut of emotions, joyous and enraged and crying and more, while reading it. A+
2457	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	(notes, not a review) a) I loved that the author used original quotations so extensively! (as well as being powerful/informative, it helps bring down the barrier towards Reading Original Texts.) b) Why weren't we taught her in economics. (Why aren't we taught more socialist economics, as economics not as cultural critique.) c) I think the drawing style superbly suited the subject matter and made it more... real.
2458	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Quite the interesting story of this revolutionary woman, Rosa Luxemburg. But I felt like the author should have found a better balance between the story and the historical facts and the fun commentaries. And even thought I don't agree with the communist or socialist ideology, I think that most of the ideas in here were explained in a way that made sense.
2459	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The author does a great job of mixing some pretty difficult and, some might say, dry concepts with a truly human story. It left me not only with a very strong sense of Rosa's indomitable spirit but also of her honest empathy for her fellow human beings. It's good that when you read about your heroes some of them live up to the scrutiny.
2460	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Rosa Luxemburg is one of the most fascinating historical figures. Her work is one of the most, if not the most, important influences in my political development. The artwork is fantastic. Kate Evans manages to synthesize not just Red Rosa's life but also her work and ideas. I highly highly recommend this graphic bio of such a badass woman. 
2461	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The book is super. I didn't know much about Rosa Luxembourg's personality. I think it's OK that there is a lot of text, because there are quite a lot of quotes, details of the historical context, descriptions of theories. You can skip this or, on the contrary, go deeper. For me, the story is about the significance of one person for history, especially in difficult times. The book is inspiring.
2462	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A great dive into the life of Rosa Luxemburg. Informative and light whilst at the same time giving some sense of the woman herself and the world she influenced. Also a number of poignant moments in the book where the imagery and writing really give a force to what the ideas of Rosa proposed.
2463	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A charming biography of Rosa Luxemburg. It accurately portrays her as a a person of exceptional will, intelligence, and as last but not least, as a committed revolutionary.  The reader should take note that parts of it are fiction, so that the story lends itself better to illustration. 
2465	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Really interesting topic, but the presentation and art left a lot to be desired. Panels crammed with way too much text and the artist’s voice felt intrusive and jarring. I’d hoped I would love this but I didn’t.
2467	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	INTENSE! Loved learning about Rosa Luxemburg's life! Comic occasionally bogged down in theory (Verso is the publisher so no surprise) but I think overall this is a great intro to the history of the era, through Luxemburg's eyes!
2468	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The art was gorgeous and the story was innovative, but I found it a bit disjointed since the narrative was constructed almost exclusively from direct quotes from RL's letters and writings. Perhaps if I had more of a grounding in her life and work, I would have gotten even more from the book.
2469	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Stunningly beautiful. Brilliantly written. And, impossible to put down. 
2470	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Art was kind of creepy but it's well written and structured.
2471	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A scorching, powerful biography, that in its sweep manages to distill Luxemburg's fundamental grasp of political economy and her messy but bold and beautiful life.
2472	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I learned a good deal about Rosa Luxemburg that I had not known, although I have seen the von Trotta film. My main take-away was that Luxemburg was an important Marxist economic theorist. 
2473	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	SO good. Very funny, conveys both her personality and her ideas with a lightness of touch you wouldn't get in a standard biography. Could happily have read this on one sitting.
2474	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Well done. Tipped about this book through the Well Reds podcast. That too is recommended.
2475	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Somewhat limited in its visual range, but a vividly told, impeccably researched, and thoroughly inspiring graphic memoir.
2477	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A good comic introduction to an awesome historical figure. I didn't like the art unfortunately, it was very expressive but the characters looked too much like caricatures.
2478	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Content wise, the book is not bad. However, there's so much text that the original intent behind a graphic novel is lost. I would recommend a normal version of Rosa Luxemburg's biography instead.
2479	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"I'm big fan of Rosa Luxemburg's life and work but I am not an expert. However I do not like several aspects of how this book represents it.  1. Multiple sections speculating why Luxemburg did not have a child. You would not get this is a biography of a revolutionary man. The book directly says that having a child is the biggest joy in all women's lives, and shows her being interested in children. There's mention of ""women's wisdom"" relating to her knowledge of avoiding pregnancy, which probably didn't exist (she was probably infertile - childhood malnutrition resulting in permanently short stature is linked to infertility, not to mention other health problems). Then they talk about her having a cat instead of a child. While we all know Mimi was indispensable to the movement, adorable, and Luxemburg loved her as people tend to love their cats, it's a sexist imposition to connect this affection to motherhood. Luxemburg did not write about wanting children. This is all weird speculation based on on the misogynistic assumption that, unlike men, women need children to be complete and satisfied individuals.  2. At one point, Luxemburg was imprisoned. This is when this book gets its first opportunity to represent the kind of disenfranchised people most neglected by capitalism, those Luxemburg was passionate about defending. And what do we get? A toothless caricature of a plague victim, who says ""Why're yew in 'ere then? Whatchew done?"" (Page 65), words intentionally misspelled to recall a classist stereotype, and this offensive caricature later says they were imprisoned for arson. Considering the role of prisons in upholding the state, the clear connections between social class/minority status and prison, this is perpetuating the negative stereotype of the ""uneducated working-class criminal"". Putting this section in, where refined Luxemburg replies ""oh my goodness!"", our refined and socially-superior heroine shocked by the inherent violence of the disenfranchised, does her a huge disservice and takes a massive shit on everything she fought for.  I can't emphasise enough how egregious this is. Our main sympathetic characters at this point in the graphic novel wear suits and drink wine like caricatures of the bourgeoise and we get to meet exactly one working class woman, who has been trodden down by the systems Luxemburg fights, and this comic shows this character as a dangerous clown who disgusts Luxemburg.  3. Not a huge fan of using visually explicit sexualisation of brutalized and nameless black and brown bodies to set the mood on page 59. Especially since this is done without setting the context for these imperialist atrocities, so its educational utility is minimal.  4. So we get some panels of Luxemburg being beaten and executed by the police and then directly afterwards we have a modern person sitting in some grass with their smartphone open to Twitter and some hashtags like #communication. The implication that the modern successor is someone who tweets vaguely progressive things is absurd and comical. To be fair, on the next page we get some references to actual movements, but the image of the modern white girl tweeting #uprising was so funny and full of shit that it made me make a sort of laughing-choking noise of despair which just about summarises how I felt about this book."
2480	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"Red Rosa follows the life of Rosa Luxemburg from her birth in Zamość Poland in 1871 to her execution in Berlin in 1919. Born with a congenital dislocation of the hip, Rosa's left leg was shorter than her right and she walked with a limp and used a special shoe with a lift. After she was born her family moved to Warsaw where, at the age of 15, she became involved with the Socialist Proletariat Party and helped organize a general strike. When four of the Proletariat Party leaders were put to death and the party was disbanded, she fled to Switzerland where she attended the University of Zurich. Her doctoral dissertation, ""The Industrial Development of Poland,"" was published when she was 27. It is in Zurich that she meets and falls in love with Leo Jogiches who helps her organize Polish Socialist activities.  Wanting to be in Germany where the leading Socialist thinkers are, Rosa marries the son of an old friend Gustav Lubeck to get German citizenship and moves to Berlin in 1897. They never lived together and they formally divorced five years later. She became a leftist member of the Social Democratic Party and a founding member of The Spartacus League. Through these groups she promoted equal rights for women, an internationalist perspective, and opposition to the First World War. She tried to rally the workers to a general strike when war was declared saying ""If they think we are going to lift the weapons of murder against our French and other brethren, then we shall shout: 'We will not do it!'"". During the war the Spartacus League wrote illegal, anti-war pamphlets signed ""Spartacus"" (after the slave-liberating gladiator who opposed the Romans) and Rosa was imprisoned for two and a half years, as was her lover Karl Liebknecht. At the end of the war she and Liebknecht were freed from prison and they resurrected the Spartacus League, pushing for a Free Socialist Republic. Both were shot by right-wing paramilitary militia working for the government.  That is the framework that Kate Evans uses through her drawings to breathe life into the story of Rosa Luxemburg. She uses a recently made available letters written by Rosa and other works of scholarship to create a detailed account of her life. Filled with lovely black and white drawings, we find a Rosa Luxemburg that author Stephen Eric Bronner called in 1987 A Revolutionary for Our Times. I found her economic arguments written at the end of the 19th century, and very deftly explained by Kate Evans, very forward thinking and with extreme relevance to our 21st century predicament. Kate Evans' six pages of Rosa explaining Capitalism to her family at the dining room table is excellent. The book closes with 33 pages of notes for people who want to know more about particular events in the book. There is also an Afterword that brings the reader up to date on the historiography of thinking about Rosa Luxemburg and her influence. An excellent introduction to a radical and highly insightful scholar."
2481	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	My tendency to only read things for book clubs is beginning to negatively impact my desire to write thorough reviews of the books.  In January, my DSA chapter is having a discussion group for Kate Evans' acclaimed graphic novel biography, Red Rosa: A Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg, about the Polish-German revolutionary feminist who also had a doctorate in economics, something which nobody had bothered to tell me. So I certainly learned a lot of cool stuff about Rosa Luxemburg, which is a plus. The book quotes extensively from her writings, as well as going over some rudimentary Marxist theory, like when teenage Rosa explains bits of Capital: Volume I to her brothers.  I have somewhat mixed feelings about the art style -- it's got a sort of loose-drawn quality that I'm not always the hugest fan of and that combines very interestingly with the general expressionist vibe that makes me not like it quite as much as I want to, because I want it to be more German Expressionist-y than it actually is. I don't know. I feel bad saying that because it's certainly well done and very expressive, but... I don't know. I am not great at appreciating graphic novels, frankly. Although I do appreciate that you can read them real fast, so this was a nice break between reading actual text-only theory and reading more actual text-only theory.  One of my favorite bits was the note at the end about how Luxemburg's legacy has been constructed and reconstructed, and the way she's been claimed and disavowed and then claimed again by all the various sects of the Left. It is certainly illustrative of why we'll never win, at any rate. One of my other favorite bits was when she got a cat -- there are a number of moments like that included, that make her more relatable than such a superhumanly driven character might otherwise be. I think it'll prove to be a fun discussion -- and it'll be interesting to see who shows up, as there seems to be a good deal of interest in the event!  Originally posted at Everybody loves Rosa.
2482	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Is it obvious I'm crunching through short things to try to make my 2018 reading goal? Because that's what I'm doing!  But to be fair, I've been meaning to read this one for a while. Rosa Luxemburg is someone I've read many quotes of but have never read anything either by or explicitly about her. Her quotes and ideas are hard to miss if you dip into socialist and leftist thought at all. And now I know why! She was brilliant and iconic.  But this isn't a review on Dr. Luxemburg's life. It's a review of a graphic biography. I'm not well-versed in graphic novels. The main touchstone I have to compare this to is the March trilogy about John Lewis. March got to go into Lewis's life and the civil rights movement in a lot more detail, simply by being in three books instead of one. Kate Evans does a great job of getting in as much about Dr. Luxemburg as possible. Humanizing her, showing her successes, her setbacks, and contextualizing her ideas both in her own time and the present day.  Evans's deep research is etched into every page. There's a healthy section of notes saying where certain bits of info came from, or bits of speculation. As well as an afterword offering other texts to look into to find out more about this preeminent feminist and socialist.  So now I have to say something bad about the book, because that's how most reviews go. The art is bad. It grew on me a little bit, but I mostly tried to avoid looking at the art too closely. Characters look more like caricatures, yet I might not recognize the same character from one page to the next. Surely, there are some great visual metaphors Evans employs, justifying this as a graphic biography instead of... I don't know, narrative nonfiction?  As a quick primer of the highlights and lowlights of a visionary and important figure, this book succeeds. I now feel eager to dig into some of Dr. Luxemburg's works as well as a meatier biography.
2483	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A well-researched and engaging primer into the life, work, and times of revolutionary socialist and Marxist theorist Rosa Luxemburg (1871-1919). The book takes full advantage of the vibrancy of Rosa’s character and borrows directly from her voice whenever possible, having a rich tapestry of quotes to choose from. Kate Evans’s artistic rendition both helps elucidate Rosa’s perspective and breathe life into it.  Rosa’s singular voice as a writer rings out with such passion and clarity from a sincere desire to awaken its reader—not for the sake of some idealistic enlightenment or as an end in itself, but as a tool with which to break their chains. It is one of the great tragedies of the 20th century that the Spartacist Uprising of 1919, which Rosa helped lead and inspire, failed and was violently put down, Rosa dying with it. Could we even imagine such a future where Rosa made it past 47? One where socialism succeeded in Germany decades before the Nazis would ever have had a chance to rise to power? To me it’s one of those historical forks in the road, a moment which could’ve helped birth a very different world than the one we ended up with. Oh well...  Rosa Luxemburg is of an intellect, importance, and writerly talent which rivals Marx himself. This is why Marxism should be best understood as a century and a half plus of revolutionary and theoretical tradition, and not as obedient fidelity to one dead white guy. Marxist and socialist movements are greatly enriched when names like Rosa Luxemburg, Frantz Fanon, Alexandra Kollontai, Theodor Adorno, and Angela Davis are brought up as often and explored with equal intensity as Marx himself. All of these thinkers developed and evolved the ideas and social science Marx left behind, and are as essential to revolutionary thought and action as scientists past Isaac Newton were to the field of physics. Any genuine mode of thought must be open to reality’s evolving contours, a lesson Rosa’s writing teaches well.
2484	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	3.5 Stars  After discovering this book through BookTube, I knew I had to pick it up. A female Jewish socialist revolutionist? Yeah, I have to know more about her, and I felt Evans really delivered. She uses so much of Luxemburg's essays and letters for the dialogue which, I thought, brought Luxemburg to life. I felt her power, intellect, and sensitivity. Evan incorporates a lot of her socialist economic theory and moments of her personal life.  However, and maybe it's just me, it took me a long time to read this (for a graphic novel). I was thrilled to read what I found exciting and illuminating socialist theory, most still extremely relevant to what's going on today, but it made for a dense read. Gratifying, but I had to re-read many sections to follow her ideas. This impacted the flow of the story and my enjoyment. I also didn't feel emotionally impacted until her (spoiler alert?) assassination. Those textless pages felt like a punch in the gut. I didn't realize how invested I was in her story until I saw those pages.  This is by far one of my favorite covers of the year. It's stunning. But... I didn't like the art for the most part inside. This is only personal preference and it did not interfere with the strength of the text. Sometimes, the art worked with the text quite well, but it didn't gel with me. However, I love the historical accuracy of body hair on women in this. Leg hair! Armpit hair! It seems silly to celebrate, but it made my day.  Lastly, I really appreciate the work Evans and her team put in to make this book. At the end, there is a substantial section with entire or at least long excerpts of Luxemburg's writing. Since the dialogue in the graphic novel derived for her writing, it was awesome to see it included.  Read for NEWTs Readathon 2018, Potions
2485	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A mixed bag for this one. Far more biography than a lot of biographical graphic novels/comics we've previously done in book group. Extensive quoting from Rosa herself makes sense considering the sheer importance of her work and her words, although at times it skirted dangerously close to overloading the pages and tipping the book over into that limbo between graphic novel and book which works as neither.  Luckily Evans manages to keep things on track, and much of the deployment of Luxemburg's words is done smartly within the artwork. Where it doesn't work, the walls of text rarely last long enough to become a problem before the graphic novel elements reassert themselves.  Evans largely sticks to realistic scenes, which means the more abstract and symbolic panels have a greater impact. I am not sure I ever really loved the art style itself, but I think there were enough good bits to help me get over the more jarring caricature elements of the people involved, but you can always tell who is who even if occasionally you lose track of the many names. It doesn't do anything much with the shading (b/w, no colour) but it's clear and you can always make out what is happening. I felt some of the crowd scenes depicted were among the best moments due to Evans having the ability to cram a lot of information and imagery cleanly into a page.  While I can't say it's as striking as some biography comics, I think the text-heavy form and tough realism do at least fit the subject and I suspect Luxemburg would have approved of this (especially the bit where the reader is scolded for buying the book and participating in global capitalism). Decent without being spectacular.
2486	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	For the past half-year, getting into this sort of stuff, and specifically last few months, Rosa Luxemburg has always floated around my peripheral. There is sort of love for her, that even without directly seeing, somehow I was aware and inherited. So, I decided I needed an introduction on her and frankly if I could get all my informational introductions in this form (graphic nonfiction) I would be much happier.I need to steer away from a review of Rosa (because I really admire her), however it does say not only something to the import of her life but of its expression in the book, that I value her so much from this read. In terms of the book, I don’t think I’ve yet read something that so humanizes a figure (or character) as this did. This may come from the extensive knowledge of her private/sex life that we have but I think is mostly from the humor that was conveyed well through the “text” and given evidence in Rosa’s on letters. Much of this is great of course, it follows an immensely compelling and important figure (who is honestly now on the same “hero” status as Malcolm X for me), so yes this book succeeds in many ways.Where the failings of the book come out are in:1. There is a certain annoyance in the inaccuracy of the actual text and having to read notes for every single page. This dragged down my reading experience a great deal.2. The author place herself into the self too much for my tastes.3. This story is very incomplete. There were many times that I questioned why the figures were here or there. And it does little to explain the buildup to her assassination or the important fact that the Freikorps were a far-right paramilitary hired by the SPD. For a biography, it seemed to require more supplemental material and Wikipedia perusing than implied in “biography”.
2488	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"“I want to affect people like a clap of thunder.. to inflame their minds with the breadth of my vision, the strength of my conviction and the power of my expression.”  Red Rosa is a book that less than halfway through the book, I couldn't help but think, ""this is the exact book I never knew I needed.""  ""Those who do not move, do not notice their chains.""  Rosa Luxemburg was a poor, young Jewish girl who grew up in Poland. Moved to Germany to pursue higher education, earning a doctorate degree in economics. Not only did she criticize capitalism, but she wrote, spoke against it, and ignited a fire amongst the German Social Democratic Party. Tirelessly, she spread her message throughout all of central Europe, not afraid or ashamed of her thoughts regarding the stupidity of the first World War, and all lessons people all around Europe did not learn from it.  ""Rosa's lack of religious faith cannot buy her freedom. Her cultural identity is written on the features of her face. She will always be seen as a Jew.""  Although this piece was based on a tremendous amount of research, Kate Evans does an astonishing job illustrating and making up interactions Luxemburg and her social circle had. I fell in love with the parts where Rosa's interacted with Leo, and the other one where she spoke and comforted the buffalo. Great writing and great art.  I am rating this book as one of my favorites, as much as the person who gifted it to me is a favorite of mine."
2489	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"A really interesting graphic novel biography of Rosa Luxemburg, an important socialist historical figure (especially for Germany) that I knew very little about. But apparently Germany's Social Democratic Party headquarters are named after her?  Anyway, I read this close enough to a Hannah Arendt graphic novel biography that I couldn't help comparing and contrasting. Both are about powerhouse leftist intellectual women who travel around Europe and play important roles during 20th century history. Both biographies include long digressions on the actual intellectual contributions - in Hannah Arendt's biography, this means lots of giant text blocks on deep philosophical ideas. In this biography, it means lectures about socialism and the inevitable self-destruction of capitalism.  I like philosophy, and am an economist by training. Formal econ doesn't really incorporate Marxist thought (well, maybe some departments do), so socialist ""economics"" is mostly exotic to me. And, I'll be honest, something I ignore; I can take it as a political philosophy, not a formal set of economic theories. So I was surprised and pleased to find the Rosa ""lectures"" in this comix quite engaging and educational! It *is* impressive (and, I guess, inevitable) that the rise of industrialism - and all its attendant human horrors (especially the first industrial war: World War I) - would provoke a strong response: Mr. Marx! But I enjoyed Rosa's notes on the self-destructive quality of endless GDP growth. We can't grow forever! And the planet-destroying, colonizing forces of capitalism. And the concentrating inequalities (hello, most cited/least read Piketty!). So that was unexpectedly refreshing and interesting!"
2490	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I had little knowledge of the life and revolutionary activities of Rosa Luxembourg and this graphic novel has provided so much information to fill the gaps in my knowledge. Rosa is an inspiration, true reformist and the hero of the revolution. We follow her life, love and work path through her bravery and dedication in this novel. The story is about 19th and early 20th century leftist movement for workers rights, equality and destruction of early capitalist forces. Rosa was studying marxism and theories of class and power and she managed to promote those around Europe throughout her whole life. Her spirit was up even when imprisoned (where she managed to study and clasify birds and plants) due to unfitness to the regime. Her friendship with Clara Zetkin is presented as true comradership among two of the leading female activists of that time. It is a shame that mainstream educational is not filled with teachings of this amazing person, but luckily Kate Evans managed to introduce us with her ideas. I felt inspired to continue being an activist while reading this and hope it will inspire many others! The only confusion was pre WWI protests in the second part of the book which I didn't manage to follow (head and tail), but it is nevertheless a great novel!
2491	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	 4.5 Stars!  “I want to affect people like a clap of thunder…to inflame their minds with the breadth of my vision, the strength of my conviction and the power of my expression.”  There is a lot in this graphic memoir, above all it’s the story of Rosa Luxemburg, but Evans sprinkles in plenty of nice little, additional touches too, such as the inclusion of hairy legs and armpits, and there’s even a bold flash of meta-fiction as Evans herself makes a brief appearance in the story.  This works as an excellent introduction into the incredible life of Luxemburg and what she managed to achieve in her all too brief existence, Evans portrays her with a measured amount of sympathy, compassion and honesty that gives us a well-rounded and enticing look into the woman and her work.  The art work is of a consistently high standard, with some impressive techniques thrown into the mix, the narrative is compelling as well as accessible, and she explains many of the concepts with an eloquent efficiency. The notes, afterword and bibliography also add much to the story and this book is more than equal to all the praise that has been heaped upon it since its initial publication back in 2015. 
2492	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Fun read. Pretty decent telling of Rosa. First like 60% of the book Rosa’s character development seems to be dependent on males. Author explicitly talks about this tool for female character development. But still seems to rely on it a lot. Its Verso so it can’t ever just be unabashedly socialist, its gotta have some Zizekian wink at the reader. The author self inserts to basically shit on the theory of the tendential fall in the rate of profit accumulation. Something that dipshits pretend isn’t happening even though the gap between rich and poor in developed countries keeps getting larger, year after year the destituion of less developed countries spreads out from their urban centers, the organic composition of (productive) capital becomes more and more automated, and lastly our government is a choice between capitalism with the iron fist of white supremacy or capitalism with the velvet glove of spineless liberals who sometimes might not be white hetero males. But that is Verso and their avatar slavoj. Author does a great job of using verbatim quotes from Rosa. Clearly the best part of book and probably took the most research.
2493	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Just about enjoyable to read, otherwise seriously flawed.  The author deserves credit for avoiding the popular image of Luxemburg as just another 'leftist' or 'activist' (reformist), but clearly isn't confident in what she really stood for - too often throughout the book, Luxemburg's commitment to revolution and Marxism is presented as a kind of loose, woolly 'radicalism'.  The artwork is not very good looking, and no matter how hard you try to look at it as a stylistic choice, it's just not interesting enough to be convincing (it's probably got more to do with the author's limited abilities?)  And, if we're honest, it fails as a 'graphic biography' as it's too long and wordy to be a good graphic novel, but already too loose with the facts to be described as a biography- more like 'inspired by historical events'.  The afterword gives a fairly honest appraisal of Luxemburg's popular legacy, and how lefty-liberals, anarchist types, and Stalinists have all distorted her ideas. But Luxemburg's true legacy is not, as the afterword suggests, safe in the hands of the left-reformists in Die Linke and the Rosa-Luxemburg-Stiftung either.  
2494	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"If you're a student of modern history, social change, or economic/political theory, this is the graphic biography you didn't know you needed. The ambitious, artistic format of Red Rosa does a fantastic job of bringing an intriguing historical figure to life, showing her upbringing and its social context, the emergence of her political beliefs, her romantic life, personality, etc.  Red Rose also does a decent job of presenting marxism and the very complicated structure of late 19th/early 20th century communist social movements in a reasonably understandable manner. That is no small feat, given how dense the subject matter is! However, the author does rely on a few too many nearly all-text pages to convey various aspects marxist theory, which didn't make the best use of the medium. I also found myself getting a bit bogged down and confused about the various organizations, structures, journals, movements, etc. she was involved in as well. There were a couple of ""this is why this is relevant today"" asides, which I appreciated, and would have loved to see more of.  "
2496	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I picked up Red Rosa on a whim at the library when I decided I wanted to know more about Rosa Luxemburg. Given that there was little else immediately available at the library, I picked up Kate Evans' book with intrigue: a graphic novel about Luxemburg's life? Cool! I enjoyed this telling of the biography of such a revolutionary woman, and I was glad to learn more about her life in a unique way, rather than through a straight biography alone. However, I found Evans' narrative a little jumbled at times, when she jumped forward through time in Luxemburg's life, or when there were some questions that she didn't answer very well in the progression of the story she was trying to tell. So, consequently, some parts were confusing because of the keeping to a narrative structure. In the end, I found the book interesting and helpful for biographical details, but as a graphic novel I wasn't the most impressed. Still a good primer for learning about Rosa Luxemburg, however, a
2497	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Absolutely tremendous. Well-researched and well-written. Evans manages to deftly weave Luxemburg’s personal, romantic, emotional life seamlessly with her political life as a revolutionary theorist and major figure of the socialist left. She also includes enough necessary context (as well as some great lil primers on relevant concepts of Marxist theory) to make this feel like a very full biography — you get a hell of a lot in less than 200 pages of graphic novel. The illustration work is excellent, and maintains a flexibility of style that always feels appropriate, shifting smoothy from cartoonish to grotesque to realistic, capturing the shifting tone of Rosa’s story in all its complexities. Touching, inspiring, informative, would highly recommend for anyone interested in socialist history, revolutionary women, jewish leftists, or how to tell the story of a person who represents a movement. 
2498	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	i find the story of rosa luxemburg really interesting, however i had many problems with this book. i think calling it a 'graphic biography' is slightly misleading, as it suggests that the contents of the book are factual. unlike a written biography, this is not the case, as although the depicted interactions and conversations may have indeed happened, the dialogue itself is almost entirely fictional. this gives kate evans much more freedom in how she portrays the characters, which i also found a little jarring: rosa seemed this infallible, wonderful woman, with every other character in comparison seeming dry and unworthy. it felt to me a little hagiographical, as the good qualities of rosa (which i don't doubt) seemed blown up beyond scale. when i found out the book had actually been sponsored (funded? idk) by the Rosa Luxemberg Stiftung, i wasn't surprised - it did feel a little like propaganda. that said, some of the illustrations were incredible. 
2500	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Even though I’m not a big fan of graphic novels (in fact I can’t remember the last time I read one) this was a case of love at first sight!! I’m truly happy that I discovered and read Red Rosa because Kate Evans has created a very moving tribute to a remarkably brave and intelligent woman. She introduces the reader to Luxemburg’s theories, her world view and her passion in a captivating way by finding the right combination of fiction and private (quotes from letters), political and historical facts and events. The reader is allowed to gain a better understanding of who Rosa Luxemburg was, of the turbulent life she led and what she fought for.  I really loved this graphic novel and I can’t recommend it enough even to readers who are not graphic novel enthusiasts. Trust me, it’s worth your time and you won’t regret it!
2501	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I read Threads at university so I was already familiar with Evans’s work and how evocative it is, but I don’t think I was fully prepared for what an emotional read this would be! Luxemburg has been a hero of mine since I was 14. Red Rosa does what I think all good biographies should do, which is evoke a person as fully whole. No one is just one thing, and Evans’s work is committed to exploring all of Rosa’s life, her passions and humour and contradictions. There are some images in this that are going to stay with me for a long, long time. Wish I had a time machine so I could go for a pint with Rosa, and also my great grandparents who were in Germany at the time - what did they think of Luxemburg? I think they were just random peasant people to be honest. Anyway, this is really good and I think everyone should read it! 
2502	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A very moving and historically rigorous portrait. I particularly like the fact it quoted actual letters and writings by Luxemburg to add colour and detail to this dramatic life. The scene where she’s in prison during WW1 and clinging on to tiny sources of hope (EG the song of a tiny bird) as the world changes beyond the walls was very poignant. If it isn’t too crass to compare a real person’s murder to a fictional murder, I have to admit the ending made me think of the Grand Budapest Hotel (if you’ve seen the film you’ll know what I’m talking about). It’s as if she was somehow always prepared to die for socialism if that was what it took.  The message here is about her significance for the continuing struggle against fascism in the modern world as well as about her status as a martyr of the German Revolution.
2503	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"""When the tendency of capitalist production to expand limitlessly strikes against the limited size of private capital, credit steps in to surmount those limits. Credit aggravates the inevitable crisis. It accelerates the exhange of commodities....it provokes overproduction...and then, at the first symptom of stagnation, credit melts away. It abandons the exchange process just when it is still indispensable. Credit stimulates bold and unscrupulous utilisation of the property of others...it leads to reckless speculation. It helps to bring on and extend the crisis by transforming all exchange into an extremely complex and artificial mechanism which, having a minimum of metallic money as a real base, is easily disarranged at the slightest occasion. "" - Rosa Luxemburg warning us about 2008 100 years before it happened"
2504	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"It's difficult to know how to rate this. The artwork is excellent and it does provide a coherent and compelling insight into Luxemburg's life and thoughts. Nonetheless, it does verge on the hagiography and there are far too many unnecessary scenes of Luxemburg in bed with her partner. I doubt a similar book would portray the bedtime activities of Mr. and Mrs. Marx and it seems salacious and demeaning to portray her in such a manner.  However, the main issue is that the most interesting part of the book is actually the author's notes. Here is the immensely telling information, that for all her concern for the oppressed of the earth, Luxemburg generally didn't enjoy much contact with them, bemoaning her servants and always referring to the proletariat as ""them"". Such attitudes were a forerunner of lots of the problems that would beset revolutionary movements..."
2505	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"Thanks for the cool Christmas present brother in law! I love learning about the foundations of socialism! Definitely read this (as I have others) in the context of other ""revolutionary-ish ladies"" graphic biographies (Emma Goldman I am still glaring at you from that one book.) Rosa Luxembourg was a pretty intense, wild, and prolific lady, and really believed in her cause, and Evans does a great job with her sometimes repetitive, often dramatic, personal history and doesn't shy away from giving her philosophy and illustrating it impressionistically. And how great is this cover man? It's great. It made me proud to carry the book around, and was actually representative of the tome's interior. Thanks Sam, it was quite good."
2506	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	It's a great graphical biography that gives you valuable insights into not only Marxism, but also Rosa Luxemburg's personal life and dedicated work to develop Marx's works, and put his theories and hers into practice. She was a force to be reckoned with. The book actually makes Marxism more accessible and understanble, and it shows how Rosa's theories predated terms and concepts that came to the fore half a century after she spoke about them (she wrote about imperialism and the connection between capitalism and militarism, which is today known as the military industrial complex). I loved how the book incorporates Rosa's own writings into the story. This a great book to have. I think it's a valuable resource and reference.
2507	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"A very, very strong 4 stars. The first 50-60 pages were a little slow, but when it gets to the 1902 publication of Luxemburg's ""Martinique,"" it becomes great and stays that way until the very end. Some of the art is really fantastic. There's a lot of compelling history I didn't know, and some very cogent explanations of things like surplus value, capital accumulation, and historical materialism for readers who maybe aren't so familiar with those ideas. Also some very welcome commentary on the relationship between capital, globalization, and war. If you're eager to read more about leftists and their ideas, put this high on your reading list. Overall compelling, poignant, illuminating, and very well-crafted."
2508	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Passionate, compelling, and thoughtful portrait of an iconic activist. Wonderful art, too, notably the striking splash image (Rosa's response to the collapse of socialist internationalism into the nationalist conflict of WWI) reused for the cover.  The main narrative is followed by a useful set of notes, giving fuller versions of the quotations (from letters, books, newspapers, etc) excerpted in the text, and explaining where Evans has diverged from the historical record - such as it is - for effect. Particularly enjoyed the short essay at the end describing Luxemburg's divergent afterlives; unsurprisingly, an array of groups, representing a wide spectrum of political views, have subsequently tried to claim her legacy for themselves.
2509	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The biography of Rosa Luxemburg, economist, philosopher, socialist, feminist, politician and revolutionary. Within a short space, Kate Evan's balances complex topics into a simple and informative beginner's guide. Philosophy: What is socialism, what is capitalism and what is communism. Politics: the Great War, the socialist struggle, the rise of Nazi Germany, apartheid, and the Women's vote. Biography: Who was Rosa, what did she believe, and what was her influence. This cannot have been an easy set of topics to blend and explain, but it's executed in a seamless manner: making use of the graphic format to fill the pages with humour, and romance, to off-set the turmoil of the times, and the weight of the topics under discussion. 
2510	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I enjoyed this book in large part due to it being a graphic novel. I don’t tend to read them but this one caught my interest as it is about an interesting woman. I read it quickly, in a few hours. It provided for me the story of Rosa from her early life until the end but yet I felt that it had missing details. One thing that I think wasn’t good are the notes at the end of the book. If they were written within the novel it would have been easier to read them and I think it would have contributed to the understanding of Rosa’s character better. I did like the personal note of the author within the story and the afterward that provided more details about how Rosa’s character continued to be known.
2511	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Here's a quote from Lenin that aptly characterizes the way the end of this (unfortunately kind of ugly in both form and artwork) graphic novel liberalizes Luxemburg:   “During the lifetime of great revolutionaries, the oppressing classes constantly hounded them, received their theories with the most savage malice, the most furious hatred and the most unscrupulous campaigns of lies and slander. After their death, attempts are made to convert them into harmless icons, to canonize them, so to say, and to hallow their names to a certain extent for the 'consolation' of the oppressed classes and with the object of duping the latter, while at the same time robbing the revolutionary theory of its substance, blunting its revolutionary edge and vulgarizing it.”
2512	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I didn't know a lot about Rosa Luxemburg and wanted to learn more and this is an easy - and captivating - starting point. I enjoyed the rawness of the art and the selection of events from Rosa's life (though I also appreciated that the book occasionally lampshades that very selection, i.e. pointing out that there was rather a lot of content about Rosa's love life). Parts of the book are very good at building bridges between historical and current events. The Marxism 101 bit felt a tad unnecessary, though, and was frankly too dense for a graphic novel. In fact, I feel like that's the main problem and the reason I'm not giving this book 5 stars: Sometimes there's just a bit too much text on too little art, especially in the second half of the book.
2513	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Fascinating subject matter, but not convinced it was a successful execution into either a graphic novel (for one, not a fan of the lettering, especially when in places you have black serif font on grey backgrounds) or as a narrative/pseudo-narrative. At times it is a telling of Rosa Luxemburg's life, but some parts are a socialism primer, and others are her words reproduced verbatim. It gives the impression of being well-researched, but it's hard to engage with as a story.  This was on my TBR some time back though, and I took it off because I didn't think I'd come across a library copy. But lo and behold it was in one of the airbnbs I stayed at over the holidays so I finally read it, at least.
2514	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I think Red Rosa is great, but some superficial things kept me from giving it five stars.  The art - while I see what it’s doing (I think) - is just not the most pleasing thing to look at, and apparently aesthetics go a long way for me. I liked the concepts and story, but I wasn’t lingering on panels soaking up the artistry (except for one or two nice splash pages).  Also, being half-biography/half-economy textbook, I thought the two sides conflicted with each other at some points (while at other times, they complement each other really well).  So, take that as you will. In the end, I enjoyed my time with Red Rosa, got a refresher course in socialist economics and a history lesson on a woman I didn’t know much about - so I’d say it accomplished what it set out to do, in broad strokes.  Definitely a great use of the medium and I’d love to see more graphic novels attempt to do this kind of thing.  4/5 I enjoyed it and I’d recommend it to a certain kind of reader, but it’s probably not one I’ll ever return to (if that makes sense)…
2515	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Kate Evans, thank you very much indeed, I am so lucky of having this magnificent book of yours in my avid reader hands.  This is very very nice graphic, handsomely printed, well designed, superbly drawn and nicely told biography of our Rosa Luxemburg. The pace is smooth and it takes you quickly across the several stages of the revolutionary life of comrade Rosa from her birth up to her tragic ending.  What is more interesting about this book is Ms. Evans effort on putting ink to paper relating the learning and conclusions of the Marxist theory by Rosa Luxembourg, richly referenced in the notes pages.  A must read, definitely.
2516	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is amazing!!! Kate Evans is wildly talented and you should buy all of her books (she was also nice to me on twitter once, but that isn't why I'm saying this).  The graphic biography format is just something that I like, I know that I like it, so I wasn't really surprised to like this one too, but I also think it is one of the best of that genre I've ever seen. So if you aren't sure if graphic biographies are something you'd be into this is a good one to try out.  I'm not saying I agree with all of Luxemburg's politics, but they were (still are) revolutionary, she had a vision and a way for organizing that is very inspiring and I'm looking forward to finding out more.
2517	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is the first graphic biography I have read and I felt the format added an extra depth to the biography- and made it more accessible as I was able to digest it quickly.  (I have a large to be read pile of library books) and was lent this book just as I was about to pick my next book to read. I was captivated from the start and want to congratulate the illustrator for enabling me to quickly get an overview of a woman’s life I had not previously heard of and appreciate both the remarkable character that Rosa was and the turbulent time (not meaning to belittle the changing time we live in now) in which she lived. 
2518	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I really knew nothing about Rosa Lexemburg the Polish Marxist philosopher and antiwar activist who lived and worked in Germany before, and after World War I. This is a historical biography, and as biographies go too didactic and text heavy for my tastes. I mean, it was interesting and well researched. Kate Evans uses a number of quotations from Lexemburg's speeches and writings in her work, but when I read long swaths of text, I wonder 'can't this just be a book'?  But the art is pretty great, well inked and does complement the text well. In the end I just found it hard to get into, though I appreciate the picture of Rosa as someone who sincerely attempted to live up to her ideals.
2519	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	this is the second of kate evans' graphic novels that i've read, & it's another gem. she captures the essence of rosa luxemburg's story in pictures and words, rendering it accessible to a wide audience. evans acknowledges upfront that she has taken some poetic liberties with the facts, and balances this by providing extensive notes at the end with full quotes, clarifications and references for further reading. i didn't know much at all about rosa luxemburg before reading this book, but now i'm inspired to learn more about this remarkable woman and her insightful writings - which are just as relevant (perhaps more) today than when she wrote them, as evans eloquently shows.
2520	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I had a vague knowledge of Rosa Luxemburg before reading this, but I had no idea there was so much to her life and to her words. One thing that jumped out at me most was how empathetic and fond of little moments Rosa's writing seemed to be - an aspect that Evans highlights with quieter sections in the narrative. I found the story inspiring and powerful and sad - the artwork took me a while to get used to, though. It's often quite ugly, though Evans is writing about ugly times with ugly situations, so it's thematically appropriate at least. This book made me want to explore more of Luxemburg's writings, so I consider it a success. 
2521	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"This would have gotten four stars if not for this: ""how should a revolution proceed? Does anyone know?"" right after breezing past the russian revolution, presenting it the same way a bourgeois textbook would. Psa: lenin didnt storm the winter palace. Another gripe i have is the implication that Luxemburg invented the theory of imperialism, when it is clearly explained in the communist manifesto in the same way the author does here. Luxemburg made great contributions to Marxist theory! There is no need to fib the facts to hype her up. But overall this is an enjoyable read, and I liked the full page layouts a lot."
2522	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"An absolutely beautiful and dynamic graphic biography of a true legend on the left, Rosa Luxemburg. It does justice to the story of her life, educates the audience about her philosophy in straightforward terms that makes her work accessible, and refuses to pull punches as Rosa waged her relentless struggle against the arrayed forces of capital and reactionary bourgeois ""radicals"" who ultimately untimely ripped her from us. [Insert SocDem/Liberal here] killed Rosa.  I find Rosa's ideology to be one of the closest on the left to what I believe, and I'm so glad to have this book to recommend to others. Highly highly recommend."
2523	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I love reading graphic books and this one does clever things with quotations, with film, with repetition and cycles and also with the utter confusion of the political scene in early 20thC Germany. I appreciated the characterisation of Rosa as a sexual living being as well as an intellect and a woman, although some of her expressions seemed a bit twee (eg talking tosh). It was sobering to read her theories alongside Marx, especially her explanation of capitalism’s relation to violence amid Trump calling the military out to stifle George Floyd protests this week in the US. ‘Capitalism is prepared to set the world on fire.’ Indeed. 
2524	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Wow. Captivating and totally devastating. An important life to learn from as we envision building socialist power. I love the use of direct quotes from Rosa’s life being woven into the story itself. I have mixed feelings about the sex scenes—they are candid and tell us a lot about Rosa’s reproductive politics but are also a bit distracting from the meat of the book. I felt similarly about the graphic violence—we know WWI and contemporary revolutions were bloody, but do we need to see it? Eh. Regardless, I feel like I learned a lot from this medium and really couldn’t put it down. (Rosa talking to her cat as a plot mechanism was excellent btw.)
2525	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A moving introduction and overview of Luxemburg’s life. Not my favorite cartooning, but I wasn’t reading for the “graphic” portion of this graphic novel (and it did grow on me in certain aspects). Rosa’s writing is so beautiful. She really is one of the great writers. And her life is one of the great revolutionary lives of the famed Communist thinkers of the late-19th and early-20th Century. This is a great intro to someone who doesn’t want to jump into theory, and an adequate way to warm up to Luxemburg’s disposition and perspective. I enjoyed it. Pretty easy read and direly important subject matter. Great overall work by Kate Evans. 
2526	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The life and political thought of Rosa Luxemburg, socialists, pacifist, lecturer. Jailed for opposing the First World War. The book goes into a lot of detail about her politics, and aims to explain her thought in a lot of detail. Much of it was lost on me, but the threads I could pick up were excellent. Nice artwork, and I loved learning about a life I had previously been unaware of. Luxemburg was a divisive figure, but overall it seems to me she had the right perspective: more rights to workers, all people being able to live well, comfortably, and ensuring the worlds wealth doesn’t stay in the hands of the few.
2528	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This graphic novel/fictionalized biography is a good introduction to a woman who deserves just as much play as the more famous Emma Goldman, let alone men like Kropotkin, Bukharin, Kautsky, and other anarchists, socialists, and communists who were famous in their day. The author's sympathies are entirely with Rosa Luxemburg, and you can see why, but you can also see why she would have been such a pain in the ass to her party comrades. That's a sign of an honest portrayal. 
2530	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	If you're interested in Rosa Luxemburg, this is the graphic biography for you. If you're not, this book may make you interested. Luxemburg is an inspirational figure, especially if you're anywhere on the political left. Halfway through reading this, I joined the Labour Party. Red Rosa tells Luxemburg's life in the form of a comic: it is a graphic biography, like a graphic novel. The reading experience felt similar to being immersed in a grand cinematic biopic of her life. I seriously enjoyed this and am so glad I bought it.
2532	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I would say it’s a 4.5 for me, and this is simply because at times it feels a litttle too dense. With a second volume, it could have probably been fleshed out in a way where you don’t get whiplash from some of the scene jumps.  Luxemburg lived a truly passionate life, and I aspire to be even a fraction of the optimistic revolutionary she was. Her murder was a tragedy, and there’s a good chance in my opinion that the SPD ruined the socialist movement for everyone for the next century, moreso even than the USSR.
2533	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This was a terribly constructed graphic novel. I stopped about halfway through because I couldn’t bare reading it anymore. This is unfortunately my first introduction to Rosa Luxemburg, and while I learned a little bit about her life, the walls of text and jarring narrative distracted me throughout. Seriously, the text was jammed in and out of each frame, so much so that I felt overwhelmed. It’s like they forgot to run this past by an editor. This was such a missed opportunity for an interesting graphic novel. I’d love recommendations for a good biography of Luxemburg.
2534	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A great window into life and the events leading up to the first world war through the prism of Rosa Luxemburg and socialism.  I really enjoyed the narrative, what an amazing life. It was a great engaging way to be educated about the life of Rosa Luxemburg in such an engaging way. I completed the book within a couple sittings over the course of a few days which is a clear indication of my enjoyment.  I personally didnt enjoy the artwork and typography, but that is no reason not to buy and enjoy.
2535	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The art and story in this book does a fantastic job of framing, rather than filtering, the life of Rosa Luxembourg. The author serves more as a curator than a storyteller, and allows Rosa’s personality to shine through in her own words and letters. It necessarily simplifies her politics and relationships at times, but is usually frank and forthright in its own limitations and sources.  This book definitely hooks you on Rosa, and leaves you energised to know more about her and to read more of her beautiful and touching writing.
2536	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	**** for the graphical biography of Red Rosa, an inspiring lady and a nice introduction to the history of the socialist movement. This was an easy to digest canter through history and a summary of some of the main tenets of socialism and Marxism. I admired Rosa's battles not just politically, but also from a feminist and personal love-life. In terms of the Marxist principles emphasized, whilst thought-provoking, I am left politically unchanged in my stance and a staunch believer in capitalism, despite how broken the system is.
2537	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Not brilliant as a graphic novel: loads of text not a lot of great drawings. But very effective as a pamphlet and a biography and it gives a clear, convincing voice to Rosa: the brilliant, empathic, courageous voice of the revolution. I love this book for bringing my greatest personal hero to life, and making it such a riveting read.  “Order prevails in Berlin!” You foolish lackeys! Your “order” is built on sand. Tomorrow the revolution will “rise up again, clashing its weapons,” and to your horror it will proclaim with trumpets blazing:  I was, I am, I shall be!
2538	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A moving biography of Rosa Luxemburg, a Marxist theorist, social democrat, and revolutionary who died during the German Revolution of 1918–1919. I've read a number of graphic biographies of leftists, but what strikes me about this volume is how Luxemburg's personal life, revolutionary activity, and theorizing are kept well-intertwined, as they were in her own life. It also has extensive notes to give full context of the quotes used throughout.  If you want to be moved, this biography will move you.
2540	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	it tries to be both an accessible graphic novel and a rigorous biography and doesn't really manage to do either. i like the idea of basing the dialogue as much as possible on the letters and other documents, but the two forms are different enough to make it flow awkwardly.  the notes provide a good overview of her ideas and writings, though they're limited to the citations used in the graphic part. i didn't get on with the artwork at all: there are some strikingly effective compositions, but for the most part the characters look like they're melting.
2541	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Rosa Luxemburg is one of the most important figures for the left and for feminism. A female, a feminist, a socialist fearless in politics, life and love. She led her life according to her beliefs on emancipation of women and equal rights and the need for a socialist revolution against capitalism and she paid with her life for her believes.  This graphic novel is a true masterpiece, an introduction to such an influential figure often treated unjustly by history written by capitalist and centre-left socialist who have so often during history sold themselves to capitalism. A must read.
2542	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautiful images. Incredible story — like so many dead revolutionaries, Rosa Luxemburg does not get the attention she deserves. And as a socialist who criticized Leninism, as one of the intellectual leaders of the 1919 German socialist/communist revolution that I never knew occurred (because it failed, presumably), Luxemburg deserves a lot more attention. History is not just about ‘successes’ and progress, it is also about the dreams that never panned out. It is especially important to consider this given the direction that Germany ultimately went in after WWI. 
2543	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I enjoyed a lot how Rosa is portrayed as this passionate and high intelligent character. I knew nothing about Rosa Luxemburgo and reading this gave me a pretty good general idea about her work and legacy. The graphics have intense moments, specially when Rosa goes to jail and she writes all these letters. And I think that Kate Evans, does a pretty good job on explaining capitalism and Historical Materialism. Sometimes, there is a lot of information and text tho, visual metaphors are superb. I do recommend this book to start with Marxist and socialist readings.
2544	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	'I want to affect people like a clap of thunder... to inflame their minds with the breadth of my vision, the strength of my conviction and the power of my expression. '  This graphic novel captures the passion of Rosa Luxembourg's vision for a socialist Republic; where the value and care of each person is equal. This book captures Rosa's integrity in her purpose and her indomitable spirit and the lack of like mindedness in the party that saw this opportunity unravel.  A fascinating exploration into an amazing woman.
2545	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Oh, Rosa! Such a fierce economist and steadfast revolutionary. Evans shines enhancing Rosa’s original writing with vivid illustrations of Rosa’s imagery: birds in a courtyard, waves of injustice, the tears of an abused pack animal. The graphic novel medium also stood out as a useful way to map out Rosa’s social theories, which otherwise are quite dense to parse.  Was happy to read this summary of Rosa’s life with the context already in mind from an exhaustive account of her contemporary Alexandra Kollontai’s life earlier this year.
2546	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Kind of a self-insert comic fanfic about Rosa Luxemburg. Poetic, perhaps needlessly so, but I'm not sure if I would have made it through a longer, drier version of her life. In the end, having the author believe so strongly in communism also gives the reader the feeling that all the members of the SPD had back then. Also funny that they became the sell-out socialist party in 1910 and continue their tradition to this day! Also, for some reason the author makes Rosa look absolutely grotesque in many panels but makes herself look overly presentable for some reason. 
2547	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Utterly incredible, I cried several times. The ending (miraculously!) gave me hope in the future again. It’s beautifully written by Kate Evans and even more so beautifully illustrated. A really inspiring depiction of my favourite revolutionary’s life, touching on her struggles with not only gender but race and religion too. If you’re interested in the history of the communist movement or just history in general, the life of Rosa Luxembourg is a phenomenal story to learn & this book is a great intro to her life & politics. 
2548	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I thought this was well done (particularly in terms of research) and interesting, if not outstanding. I didn't know much about Rosa Luxemburg before reading it and now I do feel like I have a sort of a sense of her life, even if I would still like to read a more thorough biography. I was slightly sorry her friends and women like Zetkin weren't really addressed in detail, but overall I enjoyed it a lot. I'm not a great one for comics, but I liked it.
2549	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"favorite quote in this thing: ""Bernstein preferred to believe that, as capitalism matures, it develops complex mechanisms, such as credit, which iron out the instabilities in the system. And, if unlimited economic growth is possible, there will be no sudden crisis. So evolution, not revolution, is the key to social change. It's a seductive philosophy for those with the most invested in the status quo."" in brief: never trust social democrats."
2550	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Really impressive history of left wing social political thought during a time of great turbulence. At times it felt a bit too much like a textbook but her story needed quite a bit of context to be able to appreciate how impressive Rosa was. It was very funny in places; I loved the part where she kept lying to her Mum about what she was reading! It pretty much covered everything I learnt as a first year Sociology undergraduate but in about a million less words!
2551	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I've been reading a lot lately because I've had persistent nausea and that's one of two activities that I can sustain. And even though nausea is distracting, I still learned so much about socialism and the life of Rosa Luxemburg and early 20th century history of eastern europe leading to World War I and into WWII. I think graphic biography is one of the hardest types of books to get right, and this one wins on all levels for me.
2552	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Rosa Luxembourg is a swoon-worthy woman. A fantastic picture of a movement and her personal life (and how these intersect), her spirit shines through! Obviously brilliant and ferocious, Rosa is also portrayed as charming, funny, emotional, and sexual (there are really good sex scenes in this which was unexpected!?). This is a self-aware biography, with interspersion from the illustrator who did a fabulous job conveying the person and the history of this radical figure! 
2553	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Drawn & edited in Kate's idiosyncratic style (if you've read Funny Weather and/or Copse you'll know what I mean) with a balance of art and text. While this is an introduction really to Rosa, it is wonderful to see a text that includes all.elements of being alive: sex, grief, spirit etc. Hopefully this graphic novel has helped popularise Rosa, as well as opening doors for similar studies (Voltairine de Clere anyone? I can't draw!!).
2554	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A beautiful and insightful representation of a long lost life. A strong women, ahead of her times, but still fitting right in. The Graphic Novel made her justice and portrayed beautifully the different dynamics that surrounded her character. Didn’t quite like the ending with the twitter reference, but that is just a minor hiccup..  Highly recommend if you are interested in socialism and Luxemburg, or if you’re not at all..
2555	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Generally a good books, with a nice use of quotations and good illustrations. My one issue with it is that it tends to paint Luxembourg as a bit of a liberal, especially in her attitude towards Lenin and the Russian revolution, sometimes using quotes of her's detesting the violence from ww1 to suggest she would be against the Russian revolution because people died in the civil war. Let us not forget that she was a fierce revolutionary who was ready to smash the bourgeoisie at whatever cost!
2556	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An endearing, passionate, and well-researched intro to the life and loss of Rosa Luxemburg. I enjoyed it and will definitely check out her other writing at some point because of it. I was a little confused by what audience this was written for and some inconsistencies in the content and writing. But overall, I would recommend this to anyone interested in a digestible intro to Luxemburg's role in the socialist movement of her time. 
2557	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A really enjoyable graphic biography, with plenty of notes to contextualize the pull quotes from Rosa's writing that are interspersed throughout the dialogue and narration. A great introduction to Luxemburg as a theorist, which emphasizes her work filling in certain gaps she noted in Marxist theory, and Luxemburg's history as an organizer and activist, putting her considerable skills at oration to work in the movement.
2558	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I really enjoyed learning about Rosa Luxemburg and thought Evans did a great job of telling her life and beliefs in an entertaining way. That said, I do wish that more pages had been devoted toward the end of her life. It could just be that prior to reading this I didn't know anything about Luxemburg and knew very little about pre-WWII German history, but I thought the section from WWI on was fast and I got confused. Overall, still a great read and I'd recommend it to others. :)
2559	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This book is an engaging biography of Rosa Luxemburg put together with beautiful artwork. I didn't know much about her before I read it, and I'm quite impressed by the details shared. Her personal life, professional life, views on socialism, criticism of capitalism have been described in great detail. She was a revolutionary, and the story of her passion, strength and wisdom will touch your heart.
2560	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Especially towards the end, it felt like a really great use of the medium. There were some illustrations in the last few pages that really stood out.  However... quite a chunk of the book feels like too much text and little or literally no use of pictures at all. Non-fiction is not really my genre and consequently, I found this interesting but not especially entertaining, and was glad to put it down.
2561	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I loved getting into Rosa the person and historical figure instead of the usual just learning dry theory. She was an extraordinary woman living in and trying to shape tumultuous times. I applaud the book's research and extensive footnotes, as well as the writer's faithful efforts to preserve to the spirit of Rosa's history and her works, while still making the biography engaging and fun to read.
2562	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I must say this is the most interesting book I have read in awhile. I consider Rosa Luxemberg to be a hero and an inspiration of mine and it was really cool to learn about her life In the form of a comic book. The book covered basic principles of her theories and marxism which may help those reluctant to read theory or kids learn about production and marxism. After reading this I hold more respect for Rosa. I view her as a much more smart, brave and courageous women than I ever realized. 
2563	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I really enjoyed this, saw a lot of wonderful moments from Rosa's life, and appreciated quotes from her writings used as dialogue. I am always shocked by just how many women have been in abusive relationships, she was so strong. Her conviction in her beliefs and the power of education is admirable There is a bit too much focus on her romantic life, and sometimes here are large/confusing jumps in time or place. 
2564	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I don't think I was the target audience for this book. The balance between Rosa's life vs her ideas felt off for me. I was hoping for a biography that would delve into her life a bit more, which I got in the beginning, and less into her writings and speeches (which is what the latter half of the book largely showed). That said, I feel like I learned a lot and would recommend it to anyone interested in socialist history.
2565	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I love the illustrations, but I guess that for me personally these types of stories are not very well suited for a graphic novel. It took me almost 5 years to finish this book... It could also be to do with me not knowing enough of the context, and perhaps that I'd rather learn about history in a (more) text based format. The book has made me curious to read work by Rosa Luxenburg herself, and the notes will provide a good starting point I guess.
2567	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Historical/theoretical graphic novels will always have a special place in my heart. They can make a subject that would normally be quite dense to read and learn about into something very accessible and easy to pay attention to. Kate Evans did a wonderful job with this biography of Rosa Luxemburg, one of my personal heroes. Would highly recommend if you would like to learn more about her life, her theories, and the surrounding history of them both. 
2568	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Absolutely beautiful storytelling that combines some of Rosa Luxemburg’s theoretical novelties and ardently detailed research of her personal letters and journals that most wouldn’t go out of their way to read. Thus, bringing those to light along with such unique, artful illustration for the graphic novel component/layout made for such an atmospheric and immersive read. The notes are also really good for finding out where certain things were said or the context of parts the author chose to use.
2569	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I loved this biography. Not only was it interesting and thought-provoking, especially as Rosa Luxemburg is a Dr and this is not known in many textbooks, but it is beautifully illustrated. The graphic images were so detailed and carefully considered that they carried so much emotion.  I would never have chosen a graphic biography myself, but I am glad I received this as a gift because it allowed me to consider history through sources separate from the written word.
2570	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A gorgeous graphic adaptation of Luxemburg’s biography, that manages several feats at once: 1) it presents a compelling and admiring biography of Luxemburg that avoids falling into hagiography, 2) it teaches the basics of both Luxemburg’s own thought and that of Marx himself, and 3) it provides a clear and understandable account of the socialist party’s birth, growth and co-optation in turn-of-the-century Germany. 
2572	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Somewhere between four and five stars. Great read with some beautiful images. I don’t think the quality of Rosa’s writing comes through until the last third of the book, and the end notes at the end are very helpful. She’s a figure I learned about only briefly in high school history class and now I wish I’d learned more.
2573	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Such a great graphic novel/biography. If you'd suggested to me you'd be able to capture bits of theory in a graphic novel, I'd have called you mad. So I was wrong. But it's the balance between Luxemburg's life, loves, theory and personality that makes this special. The way some of the drawings represent the events and ideas is really great.
2574	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Brilliantly illustrated, captivating political biography. If you’re looking for an easy graphic novel, this is not for you. If you’re interested in political history, political thought, and the life of one of the most important socialist thinkers in the world, then Red Rosa will not disappoint you. 
2575	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An indispensable addition to the legacy of Rosa Luxemburg. Beautifully, sometimes poignantly rendered, Kate Evans breathes life into the tumultuous history that served as both backdrop and impetus for Luxemburg’s sharp, insightful work. If you are not familiar with Rosa Luxemburg, this will provide a fine introduction sure to spur your interest.
2576	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An artistic and insightful view of an oft overlooked revolutionary figure. A strong balance of poetry, theory and life of Rosa that would be a challenge to do justice to without becoming dense, which the book skillfully avoids. At its peak the book reflects Rosa’s love of life’s beauty and humanities complexity. 
2577	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Before reading this I didn’t know much about Rosa Luxembourg beyond the basics - socialist and murdered. I certainly learnt a lot through this book but I’m not convinced it’s a successful graphic novel. The drawings are quite beautiful in places but there is so much text that I felt I was reading a comic in a high school history textbook rather than something for interest/pleasure. 
2578	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A wonderful grafic novel. Kate Evans made a wonderful research about Rosa Luxeburg. I also like the fact that she write a lot of notes, when she wanted the reader to be better inform about marxism, communism theory and also the fact that many details are a little bit different then the historical facts and that this changes were only for more dramatic scenes. I enjoy it!
2580	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I like it at first. But I could not finish the entire book. There is something in the layout of the font that is off putting. In addition the book does not really tell a story but it is a little a lazy recollection of events told in a not very elegant manner. Nonetheless the content of the book is fundamental.
2581	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is a very detailed and theory-heavy graphic novel and that made it rather difficult to follow for me. I was much more interested in Rosa Luxemburg as a person and I feel like some of those details got cut out for everything else. The art style is also a lot to try and focus on—it's very busy at times and I struggled to remember who was who.
2582	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	In addition to being a very thorough and entertaining exploration of Rosa Luxemburg's life and its historical background, it makes a great job explaining her political ideology and the theories behind it. I also especially appreciated the extensive notes of the appendix, which demonstrates the high level of research.
2583	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	“Shamed, dishonoured, wading in blood and dripping with filth, thus capitalist society stands. Not as we usually see it, playing the roles of righteousness, of order, of ethics--but as a roaring beast, as an orgy of chaos, as a pestilential breath, devastating culture and humanity--so it appears in all its hideous nakedness.”
2584	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Neither the drawings nor the text have quite caught my attention. I expected a deeper insight into Rosa Luxemburg, her works and her thinking and my impression is that the book does not deliver. I might have to find some other way to get into Red Rosa's ideas.
2587	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I'm quite baffled how someone can take the form of a graphic novel and talk about Rosa Luxemborg and communism without any verve, soul, or direction. It juxtaposition of Rosa's writing with the author's narration didn't comfortably match and it's a poor idea that was executed even more poorly. I wouldn't recommend this to anybody.
2588	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I agree with many of the criticisms of this book, especially as a graphic novel- the confusing fonts, and caricature-like drawings of human figures were not particularly appealing. Nevertheless, it did nice job of opening up the life and thought of Rosa Luxemburg to me, and made me want to learn more. 
2589	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I went into this book knowing nothing about Rosa. What an informitive book! I didn't like the art at first but it grew on me and I began to notice the subtleties and detail involved. The fact that I, who know nothing about economics walked away with an good idea is saying something. It also layed the groundwork so you could see how Germany was ripe for Hitler.
2590	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	It felt like this was a Marxism 101 textbook, embellished with a bit of the personal life Of Rosa just to add some interest. The art work is mediocre, amateurish, even. It was hard getting through the book, I fell asleep several times!
2591	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Unexpectedly sex positive. a wonderfully told, chaotically illustrated tale reflecting the heartwarming and soul shattering story of a key figure in the pantheon of the Radical Left. anything Great War messes me up real bad. 
2593	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Wow - such an amazing story. Rosa Luxemburg was an amazing woman. The hardest part of this story is watching history repeat itself. It was a painful thing to read but I not only understand how the Nazis rose in Germany but I can see what our future looks like.
2594	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Loved this book. quick and easy to read but so much information in there. Amazing illustrations and still so relevant. And I loved the little author aside midway through the book. My first graphic novel but definitely not my last. 
2595	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An interesting rich biography about Rosa Luxembourg. She was a woman ahead of her time. This graphic novel brings all the details about her life as well as the political and economic context across the end of XIX century and early XX century 
2596	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I though it was a very moving portrayal with quite a lot of information, good narrative pacing, and very energetic illustrations. I just found the graphic depiction Rosa's imagined sex life to be awkwardly anachronistic (3rd wave feminism), excessive, and probably unnecessary.
2597	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A beautiful, simple but historically accurate and sophisticated biography of Luxemburg. The illustration is lovely and the author doesn't shy away from any parts of her life. A great introduction to Rosa that will appeal to any audience. 
2599	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An important, vital work for our times.  This is a gem of a graphic novel which is utterly unapologetic about the ideals of revolution of the Jewish identity of the main character herself. Worth your time. 
2600	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Good biography of Rosa's life, but the visual gags and some of the modern commentary scenes are rather cringey, in all honesty. Didn't care for the sex scenes or for the sometimes gratuitous nudity either, but otherwise a well-depicted adaptation.
2601	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Every page of this book either blew my mind or broke my heart. Rosa Luxembourg was an absolutely incredible person and this graphic novel presents her life in an engaging, witty, tender, and beautiful way.
2603	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The plot, dialogue, research, and editing were great. But I couldn't get into the art. Sometimes it was wonderful, and it had a strong rhythm, but often it was out of proportion in a way that was just displeasing, not stylistic.
2605	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A feast for the heart, eyes, and mind. Rosa was a bold character in history and this book should only be something to accompany some of her writings and a full text biography. But, for those that want to add a piece of art about Rosa to their libraries, this is a perfect selection.
2606	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This graphic novel/text relating the life of Rosa Luxembourg is a great introduction to her life and ideas on socialism. The illustrations are artful and the inclusion of commentary is not intrusive but is woven throughout very well. This would be a wonderful text to teach with. I was a bit lost at the end though, and think it moved a bit quickly. 
2607	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An adult graphic history about a person I didn't know prior to reading this. It's too bad it uses a bit of nudity because it would be a good intro into understanding socialist thought for high school.
2608	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	this was my first time reading a graphic novel but I really enjoyed the format and found it to allow for a real emotional punch. such an important woman and to be given a summary of her life and works in this medium was very impactful. 
2609	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	While I was glad to learn about Rosa Luxemburg’s life, ultimately this book did not work for me. I was not a fan of the art style, and most pages were pretty text-heavy. The content was a bit dense with all the theory, and towards the end it felt like a rapid succession of dates and names. 
2611	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is the first I have read of Rosa. Interesting and insightful read. I should have read a different body of work about her because I think I would have enjoyed this more. Unfortunately, can't give half stars but I give this a 3.5.
2612	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautiful, vivid, very precise. Confession : this is me first time reading this much on Rosa Luxembourg. Hopefully will gradually increase the pace. She should be read, yes. But contexts matter very much.
2613	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautiful book, but I have a hard time getting into graphic novels - they're just not for me as the events always feel kind of disjointed and like they are skipping forward in time so it's harder for me to understand what happened. Still a good introduction to her life and writings.
2614	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An overall very well-done graphic memoir! It was extremely text- and theory-heavy, but I suppose that was inevitable for a woman who wrote so much damn fire. I think the best part about this was learning about such a cool woman of history :)
2615	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	What an astonishing life! Evans does a great job breaking it down and giving it a narrative flow. Certain images were so perfect to the story and Rosa's own words - particularly the cover image, the image of Rosa in the water, and how Evans montages WWI.
2616	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An amazing book for someone who is tired of endless-pages biographies. The life of a grand figure of feminism and communism with the help of excellent illustrations. Read the entire novel in an afternoon while sipping my coffee.
2618	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Harrowing and multifaceted look at a complex woman. I especially appreciated the author’s breaking of biography and storytelling conventions, which reminded me of Rosa’s own questioning of a shitty establishment. Very fact-heavy, so prior knowledge of economics helps
2619	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	It is interesting to see the proliferation of biographical graphic novels. This one packs a lot of information not only about Rosa Luxemberg but the time in which she lived. The drawings are amazing. 
2620	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is my first time reading a graphic biography. Interesting retelling of the life of Rosa Luxembourg. Hilarious and the first half flows very well. I wish more emphasis was given to the revolution and events following the war.
2621	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Sweeping, gorgeous biography of one of the most important thinkers of the 20th century. Author recounts how socdems murdered Rosa for being a revolutionary communist, then (inexplicably??) sides with socdems in the afterword. Aside from the grim anti-communist slant, a great read.
2622	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Kate Evans' does a remarkable job with recreating Rosa Luxemburg's life. I very much enjoyed this graphic novel. She was such an amazing woman, Germany could have been a much more as a country if she had lived.
2623	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The life of Rosa Luxembourg told in the format of a graphic novel. Made it more engaging to the reader rather than the rather dry biography of her I also possess. 
2624	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The first 3/4 really dragged-- lots of panels of talking heads with tons of text. The art style is also purposely ugly and bulgy and in a way I dislike. The last section was wonderful, though.
2625	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I will recommend this book to everybody. It's timely, hit the social theories right, and is in the ranks of Persepolis and Maus. 
2627	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	An illuminating graphic biography of the leading socialist revolutionary. Includes extensive end notes. 
2628	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Highly recommended. 
2629	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Not just an biography, but also a clear & lucid introduction to Luxemburg's political theory. If I ever I get my urge to read theory back, she'll be the first marxist I'll go for.
2632	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I'm not crying you're crying. 
2633	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Absolutely beautiful.
2634	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Excellent introduction to Rosa Luxemburg's life and theory, told in a gripping fashion.
2635	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Fascinating, beautiful, informative, glorious.
2636	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautifully drawn and well written, this book shines a well deserved light on Rosa Luxembourg’s life and words. 
2638	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Come for an engaging biography of Rosa Luxemburg, stay for the SparkNotes version of the chapter on Commodities from Capital.
2640	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A bit militant, if you ask me, but interesting anyway.
2641	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	beautiful illustration, mix of biography and theory. quick read
2643	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	What a life. Truly heartbreaking conclusions.
2644	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautiful and necessary reading. 
2646	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This was chillingly, heart-wrenchingly good. The hap-hazard, almost grotesque artistic style was beautiful and unique, suited to prominently capture the changing tones of the content.
2647	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautifully illustrated and has a good story flow. I wanted to understand more about RL’s ideology and take a peek into her personal life. Got both. Really enjoyed this.
2648	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Absolute thrilling empathic and strong
2650	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Thoroughly researched, well documented, insight-full and emphatic portrait of a courageous woman
2651	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Terrific graphic biography with information about a really remarkable early economist and socialist activist. But not just informative - this book is moving too.
2653	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Good as an intro-biography for Rosa Luxemburg and her writings and speeches, but I could have done without the author’s editorializing.
2654	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A fantastic read! Highly recommended, even for those who already know all about Rosa's life. 
2656	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	amazing, my first graphic novel
2658	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Interesting to learn more about Rosa L. What a fascinating woman. And also to learn more I detail about history in Germany at the beginning of the 20th century
2659	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I beautiful book, telling her tragic story in the context of the socialist movement in turn of the century/WWI/Post-WWI Germany. It was a very good primer on socialism as well.
2661	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The writing is a bit choppy at times (which might be a translation issue more than the writing itself), but this is definitely a worthwhile read.
2662	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Excellent graphic biography that balances accurate retelling with crafting a compelling story well.
2663	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Really accessible introduction to Rosa Luxemburg.
2664	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Luxemburg's Law: never trust a demsoc
2666	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautiful storytelling and very interesting story. I loved it!
2667	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Phenomenal and unique account of an extraordinary person
2668	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This comic is fantastic, beautiful and exciting from page one. 
2669	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Absolutely fantastic
2671	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Thorughly enjoyable graphic biography of Rosa Luxemburg. Shush Lenin for calling her a 'vulgar marxist' ! Would recommend as party class reading material
2672	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	honestly maybe i should seek out more graphic novel biographies i loved this
2674	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A fantastic introduction to Rosa. I need to know much, much more about her writings now!
2676	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Note: I received a digital review copy of this book from the publisher through NetGalley.
2677	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautiful carrier of the legacy of Rosa Luxemburg, inspiring and so well done. 
2680	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Exquisite art, intriguing story. A litlle heavy on the ideological nuances for me, at times I couldn't follow. Well worth reading!
2681	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A committed retelling of a fascinating life. The balance or relationship between text and image didn't always work perfectly for me, but the use of Rosa Luxemburg's own words was a strength.
2682	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Really enjoyed this accessible graphic novel. It introduced me to a life I knew little about and made me want to know more
2684	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I red Persepolis last year and wanted to try with graphic novels again, after lots of attempts, this was a good one! 
2685	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This was an engaging and educational primer on Rosa Luxemburg’s life - easy to read and really interesting! 
2687	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I gave it a hundred pages or so to capture my interest and it never did. The art was ugly and the text was hard to get into.
2689	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	this was fine but i wasn't really ever moved by it. i think some passages were a bit clunky 
2691	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Goodreads repository--biography/written by minority author/historical/multicultural
2692	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Amazing!! Never heard of her until I accidentally found this book.
2693	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautifully done
2695	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Wonderful. Visually powerful and historically accurate. 
2696	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautifully told story with emotional artwork. I loved it.
2697	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Got me out of my reading slump :) 
2700	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	absolutely loved it
2701	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A great narrative of Rosa Luxemburgs life and ideas. Unfortunately, the art style was at times too much like a caricature and seemed strangely clumsy.
2702	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Lovely artwork, emotional and dramatic storytelling along with amazing description of some concepts. The artwork accompanying Rosa's poetic quotes is very beautiful.
2703	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Very text-heavy graphic novel with a unique style that makes the message pop. Great to see such an important historical figure get her due in an accessible format.
2705	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Kate Evans graphic novel Red Rosa depicts a tough life of the largely unkown Socialist revoliutionary Rosa Luxemburg and her struggle for the betterment of the working class.
2706	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Although crude at times, the illustrations, quotes and authorial context paint an evocative picture of a prominent historical figure your U.S. public school likely failed to mention.
2707	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Read for a class - what a great way to consume such a dense history. I really enjoyed and walked away having retained a lot of history. 
2708	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Maybe I'm just salty that they didn't win world communism
2709	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	What a hidden treasure! 
2710	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	3.5* rounding up to 4*
2711	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	4.5 stars  so so good, a lot of text for a graphic novel but still really well done  dr.luxemburg the woman that u are
2714	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Blew my mind!
2715	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	they did my girl rosa so wrong
2716	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A sad attempt at girlbossifying a legitimate revolutionary 
2717	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A graphic biography of Rosa Luxemburg, one of the great personalities A simple but a very engaging simple read. Though a graphic biography, its detailed.
2719	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	i read this a couple of years ago and i still recommend it to everyone who wants to learn more about luxemburg, anti-imperialism and expansion of capitalism. kate evans really found an honorable way to capture the life of one of the greatest political thinkers, and i love how available all this knowledge is! 
2720	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	It's brilliant! A book to gift all revolutionaries and your feminist friends. 
2721	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Read this, seriously, it's inspiring.
2722	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	my mom gifted me this book when I was 14 now I finally got to read this graphic-novel-biography. I think Rosa Luxemburg is soo inspiring and I think this book/her live is a good motivation to fight for you want and deserve. I learned so much about different themes but I got to say that it was really hard reading/going through this book. There was kind of too much text, that was hard to read(Advanced text)for me personally and for a graphic novel and I wasn’t so into the art-style. 3,5
2723	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I didn't know a thing about Rosa Luxemburg before reading this GN - loved learning about her life and amazing contributions. It was an inspiring reading! The art is beautiful and very touching.
2724	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I'm still exploring graphic novels as a genre/artform, and I'm really not sure that Rosa's story being presented in graphic novel did her justice, or added much to her story. I generally disliked the style of art that the author chose for the book, and I also found the novel at times overly focused on political theory, and haphazardly jumping from person to person or event to event, not connecting things in a way that made it easy to understand how they related to one another. Ultimately this wasn't one I'd recommend, but I do think Rosa Luxemburg is an incredibly powerful and important woman that more people deserve to learn about. 
2725	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is a very unique graphic novel in a lot of ways. First, many people may bristle at the quality of the artwork (like I did at first), but there are lots of sequences that have superb artwork that conveys a sense of animation that I probably haven't seen in a graphic novel before. Additionally, some of the spreads and one-page illustrations are great. However, the true star is the sheer amount of educational potential. Obviously the main narrative concerns Luxemburg's life, but Kate Evans clearly outlines the theories she posits in a way that most readers would understand.
2726	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"Sometimes i look at the radical folks i know and think ""there's something different about them, something unbreachable,"" and i know i will never be like that, revolutionary, so i'd best not bother. But *other times* i read texts like this and feel not just that no such unbreachable border exists but also a genuine kinship with someone as undeniably radical as Rosa Luxemberg. I cannot tell you how valuable it was to be reminded of this, but i can give the book five stars, so that will have to do."
2727	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Holy heck, I knew Rosa Luxemburg was a badass but I only just realized how little I did know about her life. This graphic novel is a great work of art that still manages to capture the rich life of a young socialist. Learnt quite a bit (again) about the early days of the SPD, socialism in Germany, the Kaiser, WWI... It definitely revealed some gaps in my knowledge, but it is only by knowing what you do not know that you can start filling those gaps, right? :)   My brother gave this to me for christmas 2018.
2728	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Incredible. The only thing I don't like about it is the font.
2729	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A really helpful - and beautifully, effectively rendered - introduction to Luxemburg's life, work, contributions to revolutionary socialism, and historical context.
2730	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I wish I could recommend this.
2731	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	In general, I find comic biographies good in the sense that you get a clear and compressed timeline of a life's events, but they are usually SO compressed that there's little space for dialogue, interaction, or slowed down moments of intensity. Not so with Red Rosa. This is really impressive. It not only gives you a wonderful sense of her character, but the artwork is gorgeous and it even makes space for some very poetic and symbolic moments. Somehow, it also breaks down Marxist theory in a very easy way too. Incredible work of art about an inspirational woman. 
2732	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Nice overview but rushed in a few places. 
2733	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	‘Red Rosa’ is a graphic biography of leftist revolutionary Rosa Luxemburg by Kate Evans. Published by Verso Books, it is an account of this extraordinary woman’s life, writings, and lasting impact upon the world.  Graphic biographies are a great idea, in my opinion. I often find biographies quite difficult to get through, as I tend to find them too long and too dry. Especially when it is also a very historically-situated account that also explains various Marxist theories, as this is. So I went into this with fairly high expectations. I am very happy to say that ‘Red Rosa’ exceeded all of my expectations. The language allowed her theories of economics to be easily understood, and absolutely brought Luxemburg to life. Sprinkled throughout are various quotes from Luxemburg’s letters and books, which I adored.  I thought that the first half of the book was pretty good, illustrations-wise. The panels flowed well, and my eyes always jumped to the next panel or page with ease. (I know this can be a problem, especially for people with dyslexia, so I really appreciated that.) Huge historical events such as WW1 are illustrated succinctly, if that makes sense. They’re illustrated appropriately, and respectfully. However, that’s just the first half. The second half absolutely blew my mind. You really need to buy the book to see the level of detail in this last half. Gorgeous two-page spreads absolutely dominate, and really hammer home the bravery and the tragedy that is Rosa Luxemburg.  Although sobering, I also found this book to be enlightening, humorous, and highly relevant. Evans makes a brief appearance at one point to question Luxemburg about the modern application of her theories (which they are all too happy to debate), and the end of the book beautifully illustrates how struggles over a century ago are continue to be relevant today.  I would most highly recommend ‘Red Rosa’ – it’s a book I wish I had read when I was studying Germany, when I was beginning my foray into feminism, and when I was trying to understand what the hell Marx was on about, anyway.
2734	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"I reviewed this graphic biography on the blog I co-run here:  https://erstwhileblog.com/2016/09/14/...  ""Rosa Luxemburg, the German socialist revolutionary born in Poland, has had a tortured legacy, as historian Paul Buhle points out in the afterword to Red Rosa. Buhle, editor to Evans’s account of Luxemburg’s life and author of the New Left classic Marxism in the United States (1987), sketches the changing uses of Luxemburg’s writing and memory. He notes how the official Soviet denouncement of her thinking under Stalin made her a champion for both exiled Trotskyists and European democratic capitalists before she was revived in the 1960s as a forerunner of modern feminism. But her usefulness has long been as a symbol, a distilled version of herself, rather than as an economic or social thinker in her own right. In the last twenty years, this trend has begun to change, particularly with efforts to publish her complete works and letters in the last five years. These publications imply that Luxemburg’s thought has critical applications for the present.  Indeed, Evans’s account of Luxemburg’s life (shortlisted for the 2016 Bread and Roses Award for Radical Publishing) is rooted firmly in the present. Evans even interjects at one point, drawing herself within the story, to show how Luxemburg’s economic thinking can still be applied to our present relations of production and consumption by simply updating a few terms. At another point, Evans explicitly points out the connections between Luxemburg’s economic calculations and the 2008 financial crash. And the closing panels make clear that in our present moment of crisis, Luxemburg is indispensable. [...] Evans provides a full picture of Luxemburg’s life. She shows not only Luxemburg’s development as a thinker but also her personal relationships—friendships, various lovers—so that the reader finishes the book with a sense of a whole, flawed human being, rather than yet another 'Luxemburg-as-symbol.'...."""
2735	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"I hate to admit that this graphic biography didn't really grab me as much as I expected it to. I found it interesting, informative, and artistically beautiful, but I didn't absolutely love it.  The worst thing is that I don't actually know *why* it didn't really pull me in. The artwork is lovely - it wasn't idealized or grotesque, but a nice level of realistic. The only thing that I *really* disliked was the type used for speech-bubbles - I found it difficult to read and follow, and sometimes it took me a moment to figure out who was saying what. I think that was a poor design choice, but I also really enjoyed the fact that you could differentiate Luxemburg's own, actual writings (in a nice, legible italic) from the author's additions and fictionalizations.  I appreciated that Evans did a quick ""breaking of the fourth wall"" to relate the socialist/communist movements of the late 19th and early 20th centuries to our current economic situation (and how well it fits into the theory of late capitalism), and I think that through out the book, she did a good job of simplifying a lot of Marxist thought for readers who may or may not encountered it before.  I also really enjoyed the notes section. If I had realized that not all the pages are numbered, and that pages with corresponding notes were not marked, I would probably have been irritated, but in the end, I think I was better able to appreciate the depth and scope of Evans' exhaustive notes section without flipping back and forth while reading the book. (Not to mention that the footnotes and citations on individual pages would have been somewhat distracting from Evans' artwork.) I also loved that Evans clearly notes where she has taken liberties with historical facts and events for dramatic effect."
2736	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is an enjoyable book about an utterly fascinating woman. The art is beautifully imagined and executed. The pacing is a little choppy at times, mostly because it switches so much between the narrative of Rosa's life and the depiction of her ideas. In the interest of full disclosure, I am not a socialist, I am in fact a capitalist. This seems to me a book written for socialists; it assumes a little more knowledge of the subject than I posses, and than I think most ordinary readers possess. Additionally, the narrative tone assumes that Rosa's ideas are correct about everything and dismisses her opponents as hypocrites. Possibly many of them were, but Rosa seems put on a pedestal impossible for any human to reach. I think it is a shame that a well-executed story of such a brilliant woman who led an enormously intriguing life is not as accessible as it could be and shows less objectivity than I hope for in a biographer. One other major weakness is what seems to me to be a narrowness of the author's vision, particularly in referencing the 2008 recession as if it is/was (depends on which economist you're talking to!) something that will/would last forever. Again, I'm a capitalist, but I think the argument is ill-served by a rhetoric that seems to indicate that nothing of any interest happened beyond Rosa's time and now, or the immediate past. Of course, this may simply be an attempt to remedy the first issue by making Rosa's ideas more accessible to a modern audience; if so, I can't help thinking that it did not quite succeed. But it's a great read, a magnificent tribute to Rosa's intellectual accomplishments, and a book that made me think. So, well done!
2737	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"As a historical graphic novel set around one person's economic and political philosophy this was a great idea. To showcase in more depth a certain person and time period in history. I feel those who already know about German politics and European socialism would enjoy this graphic novel. It may even be complimentary for classes at a university. This is also due to the Marxism 101 feel of the novel and dialogue. I was expecting more of a biographical take on her life, but it seemed like a huge historical dialogue about her views with pages of her having sex in between. I didn't like how the author used a non-existing ""us"" when talking about the different philosophies. Examples: pg. 53: ""Rosa helps us see exactly what this capitalism is that we are fighting against"". ""We""? Who? I am not fighting, are you? At some points it seems of a thesis of some student who is trying to convince his professors something: pg. 54: ""As a result of its own inner contradictions, capitalism moves towards a point when it will be unbalanced, when it will simply become impossible. (History has not yet proven the validity of this theory. That doesn't mean it isn't true.)""  The dialogue itself was somewhat cheesy between characters. However, it was great to add the different fonts between her letters, the author, and Rosa in the graphic novel. Like I said before, for history lovers, non-fiction lovers, and those studying economic and political theories this is a great graphic novel. I, however, saw more negative aspects than positive. I did not completely hate it and appreciate it's purpose.  Thank you to NetGalley for the eARC!"
2738	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I end up reading a fair number of graphic novels. The thing is that I normally just grab them from the library because I hate paying what is a higher price for a book that I will read much faster than a normal book. It makes my dollar per entertainment hour ratio increase and I’m sure that’s how most normal humans judge if they should buy a book. I am, however, glad that I purchased this book, because I can support my favorite radical publisher (Sorry, Haymarket) and I have a book I can pass along to like-minded friends – a book that most likely would not have been in my library anyways.  And it’s a good book. Before reading Red Rosa, I was only vaguely aware of her as the writer of Reform or Revolution and the General Strike. I also knew that she was a martyr to the cause of worldwide socialism. What I didn’t realize was that she had to fight her own party to not just go along with the bourgeois parties, like for example voting to a man (and they were all men) for entry into WWI, and instead work towards the last lines in the manifesto – “The Communists disdain to conceal their views and aims. They openly declare that their ends can be attained only by the forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions. Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communistic revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win. Working Men of All Countries, Unite!” It is these lines that illuminated and drove her life from a precocious young woman in Poland to a death before her time. Well worth reading for both history and inspiration. 
2739	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Most comprehensive introduction to Rosa Luxembourg I've had yet - and the graphic novel form is my favorite intro for all things historically, so I'll be recommending this to anyone who shows an ounce of interest. I'm also a sucker for fully cited and referenced material as written out at the rear of the book, so that's a big bonus. Next time I re-read I plan to flip to the back to read every quote and source material. I only did that occasionally on this first time through.  Rosa Luxembourg was dedicated revolutionary and Evans succeeds at showing the humanity behind the revolutionary - the same humanity that presumably drove her to such revolutionary ideals in the first place. Her story appears to me as a warning through history of the muddiness of crises and potentially revolutionary situations; of the threat of our allies, seemingly separated by mere nuances of thought, becoming our adversaries (and potentially assassins, in the case of Rosa Luxembourg) in the most crucial of historical moments - when the time is most ripe and necessary for revolutionary action. At the same time, Rosa's critique of the Bolsheviks (presented as a passing comment), for me, shows just how convoluted our ideals can be with our material situation. History shows that the Bolsheviks won and secured power while the Spartacist League not only failed, but Naziism followed a decade later. In any case, she's obviously a massive inspiration to the Marxist Left and it was a pleasure to get to know her story.
2740	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Everyone should read this book!
2741	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A wonderful mix of the politics and personal history of a remarkable woman. Containing much of Rosa Luxemburg's own words we see how strong, intelligent, determined and intimidating she was. The graphic novel reveals aspects of Rosa's life of which I was previously unaware and they made me respect her even more. The artwork is playful and the dialogue thoughtful. Highly recommended to anyone with an interest in feminism, socialism or political history.
2742	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"""I want to affect people like a clap of thunder, to inflame their minds not by speechifying but with the breadth of my vision, the strength of my conviction, and the power of my expression."" Dr Rosa Luxemburg in one of her letters. This fictionalised graphic biography by Kate Evans lets her shine through. I knew very little about Dr Luxemburg so I learnt a lot, also about the end of the first world war in Germany...  Graphic novels offer such interesting opportunities and the art work here really works with the story (it's also great to read another graphic biography about an interesting woman with copious notes!). My favourite bit art/text wise is her letter when she's in prison about the blue skies and swallows. Beautiful! And I'm reliably informed that the conversation Rosa has with her brothers is a good summary of a fair amount of Das Kapital, so I can carry on meaning to read it some day for a bit longer:)"
2743	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"This is a sympathetic and informative account of Rosa Luxemburg. I had heard of her when I studied Marxism some decades ago, but didn't know the outlines of her life or her ideas, and this gave me a rough idea of both. The graphic novel format made reading and absorbing the ideas a pleasure instead of an intellectual ordeal. My slight irritation at being lectured (albeit briefly) about Marxism in a graphic novel gave way to interest at how she developed some ""missing"" sections of Capital, vol. 2, into a theory of imperialism which really anticipates Lenin's ""Imperialism."" Even though she was sometimes critical of Lenin, she was even more appalled by the abandonment of an anti-war perspective by the German Social Democrats. What a complete betrayal! I am glad to have found this book, by chance in a library, and it left me with increased interest about her life and ideas. "
2744	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Red Rosa by Kate Evans is a stunning work of both biography and visual art. In fact, because of the extensive appendix with citations for quotes and events in the book, this serves as an excellent research source (likely as an intro to Rosa and a springboard into other sources from the appendix).  Rosa's ideas are expressed clearly and are at least as relevant today as they were then. Her struggles as a woman within the movement are also on display, from which we can still unfortunately learn about not discounting people because they may belong to some group.  I highly recommend this book for those interested in Rosa's thought, for those who like good biographies (in graphic form) and for those who like quality graphic novels in both the drawings and the book materials.  Reviewed from an ARC made available by the publisher via NetGalley.
2745	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Star rating: 3.5  Red Rosa is a very enjoyable biography of a fascinating woman in the socialist movement that I did not know anything about. The book covers her childhood to death, delving deep into both her politics and personal relationships. It also serves as a decent introduction to socialist thought, and an interesting perspective on what was going on in Germany before WWI.  The book drops from a 4 star to a 3 star only because the art and layout was at times not quite as good as it could be. The author/artist takes a lot of risks, many of which work well, but others make the narrative either harder to follow or a bit less interesting. However, overall the narrative is extremely compelling, and readers get to learn about an amazing woman that definitely deserves more attention!
2746	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I wish I could give this 6 stars out of 5. This was absolutely gripping and unbelievably drawn and lettered. Rosa Luxemburg is almost overwhelming as an image - a larger than life woman who was almost unreal when I started learning about leftist politics. As with Jason Lutes' Berlin - there is something chilling and horrifying about the banality of evil that is seeping in around the edges, especially when you know how the story ends. Edward and I stumbled upon Rosa's memorial on the edge of Tiergarten this summer when we were in Berlin, and reading Red Rosa just makes all of that seem more real, more astounding, more horrifying. Rosa is an unbelievable woman, and her words, her vicious words, are sharp and even more alive in this biography. A must read for any woman. Bravo!
2747	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This book is a gripping, interesting, surprisingly detailed biography of Rosa Luxembourg. I got this book at a lefty book stand at a festival in Helsinki, and I was pretty excited to read it. I had previously heard of Rosa Luxembourg at the Liebknecht Luxembourg Demonstration in Berlin in January and I thought it was really fun, but I knew absolutely nothing about Karl Liebknecht or Rosa Luxembourg, so I was glad when this book came along. This book is extremely detailed and combines bits of her everyday life and womanhood with her political activity. It’s easy to understand that she was just an ordinary human woman with feelings and aspirations, but she was also and extremely influential political figure in her time. 
2748	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Thoroughly enjoyed. History packed into a graphic novel. Insightful, inspirational about Rosa Luxembourg injected with humour by the author. Red Rosa is a graphic novel that had me on tangents of historical research about Rosa herself & socialist movement surrounding the era and then some! Giving five stars to Kate Evans for the simple format, epic cover art and sending me on a satisfactory, unexpected knowledge harvesting journey. 
2749	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Meant more for an educated and intellectual audience than a reader interested in graphic depiction, this is one brilliant example of biographical art.  Extremely fascinating is the concept of money and an introduction to capitalism that is being explained by Rosa to her brothers. She does this using a few spoons, a pocket-watch, a coin and a loaf of bread. Even a reader unfamiliar with the basic concepts of economics comes to understand it even better.  A recommended read for history buffs and lovers of non-fiction, amongst readers of graphic novels that is…  I thank NetGalley for an eARC.  For a full review:https://themonkeysprings.wordpress.co...
2750	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Finished in a single sitting. My only complaint is that it largely glossed over both Luxemburg's role in intra-RSDLP faction fights and attitude toward the Russian Revolution. Which, OK, I'll grant is not exactly an easy topic to cover in factional form. But since Evans managed the admirable task of giving a decent rendition of her Luxemburg's critique of Marx on the accumulation of capital--in the form of a playful conversation with her cat--perhaps it could have been done somehow. Since those are the aspects of her political career that show her at both her best and her worst, it blunts the overall impact of the account.
2751	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	2016 Read Harder Challenge: A biography  I really liked the first half - or maybe even the first 2/3. But, then I got lost in the politics and it became less about Luxemburg herself and more about her causes. Perhaps, this is reflective of her actual life, but I had a hard time following. I think if I knew more about WWI, the Russian Revolution and German political history, I would have enjoyed it a bit more.  There was a great section explaining Marx's theory of capitalism, the inherent contradictions therein, and Luxemburg's own additions to Marx's theory that I might try to use in my classes. 
2752	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is both a biography of an incredible woman, Rosa Luxemburg, and an instruction to socialist thought and history at the turn of the 20th century until the immediate aftermath of the First World War. It is engaging and well written, bringing together a compelling narrative and insight into the socialist movement of Luxemburg's day. The art was well done and at times quite moving. The only fault I could find with this book is that at times the narrative jumped from event to event quite suddenly. This doesn't detract much from the enjoyment of reading, however, and I definitely recommend this to anyone interested in 20th century history, socialism or Rosa Luxemburg. 
2753	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I cried when I finished this. Rosa Luxemburg is the most inspiring comrade, and Kate Evans tells her story so beautifully. If you wanna read more beautiful things, also check out the letters Rosa wrote from prison to her friends, like this one. She was such a fierce and tender soul.  “Order prevails in Berlin!” You foolish lackeys! Your “order” is built on sand. Tomorrow the revolution will “rise up again, clashing its weapons,” and to your horror it will proclaim with trumpets blazing:  I was, I am, I shall be!
2754	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This is a marvellous graphic story about Rosa Luxemburg's life. Her early ambitions as a poet reading Marx behind her mum's back, her revealing knowledge in her sexual and romantic life or her inherent love for all forms of life even in prison, makes her figure a unique one in political science and philosophical thinking. I encourage any reader to pay attention to the wholesome of this graphic novel and how all aspects of life come around to conform to an absolute strong-spirited woman who challenged her time and circumstances in ways that we can still not grasp today. Hope the remembrances of her persona and her ideas keep the memory of her life alive for long!
2755	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I really enjoyed this graphic memoir. It is footnoted and has some really beautiful illustrations. There is one incongruous moment, however, when the author breaks the narrative and interjects herself -- quite literally by drawing herself into the story -- to question whether the things Luxemburg writes about are still relevant today. This interjection only occurs one time, but is really out of place in the narrative, I think it should have been edited out. Despite this one odd moment, the book is an excellent read.
2756	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Quick, informative (if oversimplified) biography of an important leader of socialist thought in the early 20th century. Author clearly has an agenda, but at least it's made clear so you can take a lot of the information with a grain of salt. Most interesting parts are the excerpts from Luxemburg's own writings on socialism and Marxism. Most of the art is ok, but there are a few stunning panels (like the cover, for example) that the author/artist clearly spent more time on. I would recommend if you'd like a basic background of pre-Bolshevik socialism. 
2758	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The artwork wasn't bad, had some interesting points, and I did enjoy the humour, but besides further piquing my interest and giving me a vague overview of Luxembourg's life, I can't say there was much to take away from this. Her ideas just don't seem to translate too well to the graphic novel format, and the odd chronology, a conscious decision by the creator, and the persistent need for explanatory notes, takes away from the reliability of the narration. I'll look into a more comprehensive, textual introduction to Rosa's work and life. 
2759	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A great Graphic Biography of Rosa Luxemburg. It tells the life story of philosopher, economist, publisher, writer, organizer, political leader and martyr Rosa Luxemburg. It even talks about her complex relationship she had... very liberal.
2760	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This graphic novel tells the fascinating story of Dr. Rosa Luxemburg. I thoroughly enjoyed the book and read it in two sessions.  Cons: There were times that the graphic styling was difficult to read due to structure. Having a separate page for panels where the narrator changes (for instance, when the author adds in notes) might be easier to follow. At times the hand written text was a struggle. Ultimately these are design comments, not content.
2761	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	comic book biographies of economists doesn't sound like a particularly rewarding category, does it? but evans is good, really good, making luxembourg a real human being whose visible self expresses her internal self. the graphic explanations of basic marxist theory are engaging and luxembourg's own arguments are passionate, lively, and cut short. evans is so good i could almost tell the early twentieth century german socialist guys apart. (hint: look for beard variations.)
2762	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautifully illustrated introduction to Rosa Luxemburg's life and main insights: on the accumulation of capital, the mass strike, the national question and her courage during the war years. It really gives a sense of her personal life as well. Only downside is the crude way in which her position on the Russian revolution is portrayed and, related, the way questions of organisation with the Spartacusbond are developed.
2763	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This was amazing! I had never heard of Rosa Luxemburg until I stumbled upon this graphic novel. It was such a perfect telling of her life. She is amazing and truly inspiring. She was intelligent, passionate, persistent, lived by her own rules. So friggin brilliant! The book effectively describes her life and motivations. It also shed light on some things aspects of World War I that I was unaware of: the reluctance of various armies to participate and their attempted mutinies. Very interesting!
2764	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	"""Stunningly good."" Paul Mason   ""... in the dark I smile at life, as if I knew some sort of magical secret that gives the lie to everything evil and sad and changes it into pure light and happiness. And all the while I'm searching within for myself for some reason this joy. I find nothing and I'm a smile to myself again- and laugh at myself.  I believe this secret is nothing other than life itself."" Rosa Luxenburg"
2765	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I've been long interested in the figure of Rosa Luxemburg or Róża Luksemburg. I've known her as a prominent Polish-born communist, but thats about it. Red Rosa was a good introduction to her life starting with a childhood in a Jewish family in Poland via studies in Switzerland and her later active life in Germany. Provided the basic facts and ideas and I've read it quickly, but never managed to properly engage me.  Bought at the London Radical Bookfair.
2766	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I was set to give this a 3, because a lot of it reads a little too dense for me, like a history book as opposed to a story. But the ending has such beautiful images (the man beating her that makes a shadow of a swastika, using her epitaph as a connection to Twitter, etc) that really struck me. So probably more of a 3.5. This was really a great exploration of a woman whose name I didn't know but should have.
2767	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The story of Rosa Luxemburg, a political figure most active before and during World War 1, and a revolutionary fighting for change in Germany at a very unsettled time for all of Europe. I followed her life story with ease but I must say her political thoughts on capitalism and socialism were harder to get my head around. Still, as always the graphic novel format takes a deep and intricate subject matter and opens it up to a broader audience to enjoy and learn from.
2768	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Rosa Luxemburg was a childhood hero of mine, and the more I learn about her, the deeper my admiration grows. I re-read this graphic bio by @cartoonkatevans because it’s brilliant and brave, and because it brings her to life and makes her more relevant than ever. 100 years on since her murder, it’s a good moment to reflect on Luxemburg’s work. What would modern Europe look like had she lived on? And more importantly, where are the Rosas of the future?
2769	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Rosa Luxemberg is a fascinating, inspirational thinker and activist. I will read this again and again to make sure I fully understand the content and impact.
2770	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This was really heavy. I don't just mean because of the subject matter. It was information overload and often felt like a textbook. It makes sense because of her political life, but it was too much for me at times. However, I had never heard of Rosa before and she was a very intriguing person with an incredible story. 
2771	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Great read and a fine, moving way to get a biography of one of the Left's great heros. Difficulty is that while the format id creative, it does not allow for much debate about the subject. The result is that it is rather unquestioning about Luxembourg's beliefs, which seem sometimes trapped in a prism of doctrine. But I enjoyed it and know a lot more now than I did - so success.
2772	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Beautifully designed and written biography of Rosa Luxemburg, I enjoyed every page! I love how her ideas and theory were combined with the mundane scenes from everyday life. The suffering she endured and the tragic ending was so touchingly presented without pathos but evoked and inspired a desire for revolution in the reader
2773	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	*Received this from Netgalley for an honest review*  I believe the book has a good story, but the graphics weren't the best and it wouldn't be allowed in schools with the sex and naked people... I wasn't entirely sure why that was even in there.  An okay graphic novel.
2774	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	3.5 stars  I enjoyed this. The artwork was stunning, the story was interesting ... Some parts did feel a little disjointed and I would've preferred less Socialism 101 and more on Rosa's life, but overall, a great read.
2775	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Its understanding of political theory is lightweight, and too much focus on Rosa's personal life made this book less enjoyable than it could have been. Nonetheless a fairly entertaining and useful biography about a remarkable individual.
2776	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	If you want a graphic biography that uses early 20th Century European imperialism to contextualise the socio-economic juncture at which we currently stand AND to learn about a BAMF (also get a little hope), read this book.
2777	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	3.75 stars. Wasn't really familiar withn Rosa Luxemburg and it seemed well reviewed, so I picked this up. My marxism has largely receded in many ways, so I wasn't quite as interested in the story matter, but it's a good story, and was informative.
2778	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Why am I only hearing of her now?  This book is truly a gift, I read it in about two hours. I like the art and I am glad that I was able to add this story to my collection. I look forward to being able to read some of Rosa's own works in the future.
2780	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Review to come... 
2781	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Loved the art and learned a lot in an entertaining way in this serious biography of a fascinating woman. A great gift idea for radicals.
2782	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Powerful and enlightening - I had never even heard of Rosa Luxemburg and am glad I got to experience her story via this book.
2783	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I suppose if you don't like women of intellect and will you might not like this; otherwise...
2784	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Kate Evans does an incredible job of capturing the life and words of an inspirational figure in her artwork
2785	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Brilliant. Just that: Brilliant.
2787	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	#HiglyReccommended: A giant of the political left, R. Luxemburgo.
2788	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	it was great. my first introduction to her. A very intelligent and refreshing biography. (I want to do a better review for this, but it's late on a school night.) A good read for anybody!
2789	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	A beautiful and gutsy book about a very impressive woman. If you don't know enough about Rosa Luxemburg, this is a great book to start.
2790	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	wonderful book, with great art and humour.
2791	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I am of the Birmingham School of cultural theory, so I like little baby books that promote critical thinking at this level for youngish people.
2792	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Really interesting biography. I'd not heard of Rosa Luxemburg but she's a fascinating person. It was very educational.
2795	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This book is amazing. A true piece of art. Chock full of history and theory, high-flying thoughts and the gruesomeness of war. Loved it, both the way it is told and the drawings.
2796	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	The idea of this book is interesting and I did learn a lot, but the art was not my favorite and the layout of the panels wasn't very intuitive to the point where it was occasionally an effort to read the pages
2797	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	I was so disappointed today when I walked into my local library to find that the only book they had on Rosa Luxemburg was a graphic novel. Then I started reading and was reminded of how powerful an art form the graphic novel can actually be. The book succeeds in telling the story of a historically important person, but it tells the story in a way that is unique to the medium. It touches both upon Marxism and Luxemburg's contributions to it. All the while it gives touching insights into the soul of someone who was overlarge and yet at the same time quite vulnerable and human. There are also touches of humor, and I can't help feeling that it is Rosa's own personality shining through in it. This is art, and art is a reflection of what it means to be human in all its depth. Not only was I grateful to be introduced in such a fine way to Rosa Luxemburg, I was also pleased to know there is someone out there still capable of comprehending and relating her story in a relatable and profound manner.
2798	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Very inspirational, art was a bit...stylistically odd but nothing bad.  What a wonderful woman.
2799	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Awesome, you learn a lot about this interesting woman
2800	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	a little muddled in places, but solid.
2801	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	This graphic novel is phenomenal. Both enjoyable and tear-jerking. It articulated and help solidify two things in my politics: the very concept of money fusing with Society to ensure everything produces capital and giving everything 'exchange value'. And how the parliamentary success is not the project, and we must not be continually caught up in its respectability politics or we will betray the struggle for Revolution and freedom
2802	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Would recommend.
2803	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	Brilliant. Hope this is on required reading lists for high school students.
2804	Red_Rosa:_A_Graphic_Biography_of_Rosa_Luxemburg	great starting point into the life of rosa luxemburg. now i want to read her work.
2806	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	I really wanted to like this more. The artwork is astonishing, understated and daring at the same time. The story is what really matters, but it is confusing at times, you really need to know your facts in order to follow it. It might benefit from re-reading it, but I will leave that for later, it was exhausting the first time round. Who knows, in a few years this could be a classic... 
2807	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Most graphic biographies are written to make a young adult understand the basics of someone's life, but this book is a refreshing departure from that.  It ponders nonviolent versus nonviolent protests and the different aspects of MLK from a variety of perspectives and cast members and it was very thoughtful and there was panel repetition placed in a really interesting way.  My main gripe is the fonts. handwritten text would've helped it flow much better for me. And the speech bubbles got a bit hard to read in order.  But it was very surprising, and very good. Worth a reread.
2808	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	I liked that this wasn't hagiography; this portrayed King as a real man. I didn't like all the different view points. I found it very hard to follow at points.
2809	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	King, The Complete Edition: A Comic Biography of Martin Luther King, Jr. is a biographical graphic novel written and illustrated by Ho Che Anderson. It collects all three volumes of the series and is a surprisingly in-depth biography of Martin Luther King, Jr. As today is Martin Luther King Jr. Day (20 January), I thought it would be apropos to read this graphic novel.  Martin Luther King Jr. was an American Christian minister and activist who became the most visible spokesperson and leader in the Civil Rights Movement from 1955 until his assassination in 1968. Born in Atlanta, Georgia, King is best known for advancing civil rights through nonviolence and civil disobedience, inspired by his Christian beliefs and the nonviolent activism of Mahatma Gandhi.  This graphic novel is a compelling and often moving narrative of the life of Martin Luther King Jr. Anderson follows King from boyhood through college and into the stormy Civil Rights movement. However, while the broad narrative of King's life may be familiar, this is hardly a comic approach to the man.  King, The Complete Edition: A Comic Biography of Martin Luther King, Jr. is written and constructed rather well. Anderson employs a uniquely multifaceted and multilayered graphic and narrative approach to capture the complexity of King's life and times. Anderson technique falls somewhere between cartooning, painting, collage and documentary photography and it is deeply effective.  All in all, King, The Complete Edition: A Comic Biography of Martin Luther King, Jr. is a wonderful biography of one of the most influential activist in modern times – Martin Luther King Jr.
2810	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Ho Che Anderson spent 18 years preparing and creating this piece. The amalgamation of quotes and photos amongst his drawings and imagined interactions is very well done. It is more than just a biography though, it also touches on the validity of violence vs non-violence in protest, how the media can be skewed in their reporting, how people viewed MLK’s ‘propaganda’, his rise and fall from public opinion, and his human weaknesses.  Anderson writes about his process over those 18 years at the end of the book, and how messy life can be during that period. He also lists the books and documentaries that were used as inspiration and a basis for his work, as well as mentioning that he still messed some bits up.  Anderson’s style isn’t one I find particularly easy to read, but sometimes that just adds to the weight of the subject. I think it was an impressive piece, and I definitely have more reading on MLK that I want to do.
2811	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Graphic novels are supposed to be visually appealing and with interesting dialogue mainly focused on the key events. This book was boring anf ugly. It was also near impossible to sustain the narrative. I made it 80% of the way because I like graphic novels on historical figures but this is a hard pass. I felt I gained little of a sence of the time, the people, the energy or the atmosphere.  Ps. This book had the worst action animation in history when the boy is shot in Chicago riots, a 10 yo could have drawn better.  NOT WORTH PRINTING
2812	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	"The artistry in this graphic novel is superb, though that is sometimes the issue. I found many pages difficult to navigate the dialogue, since how the artist depicts characters can alternate throughout.  I enjoyed this as a first ""black"" book to read during BHM, but look forward even more to books by Cone, Malcom, and Martin.  FYI, this graphic novel contained strong language at points, and one panel had partial nudity."
2813	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Part 3 was best, 2 was the weakest. The visuals being all over the place didn't bother me, as the art was mostly great, and the writing was mostly good. What keeps this from being great is the presentation of the text. Hard to follow, sometimes hard to read, and mixes very badly with the art. Overall, the strength of part 3 saved it from its problems. 
2814	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Reading this felt like watching a biopic or an intimate documentary. The author often gives scenes as flashes of image and dialogue before cutting abruptly to the next scene. Some of the art was a little inscrutable, though, and some of the pages were hard to follow.
2815	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Wanted to like this. Just couldn’t get into it. Also very traditional bio- ignored the contributions of women to the movement 
2817	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Not written in a style I can grasp.
2818	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Very interesting but a bit difficult to follow
2819	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	I didn't really like the drawings in the book. Its hard to follow who is who in the book at times; it would have been helfpul if there was an index of a cast of characters and their impact on the civil rights movement and where each of them helped out to allow the reader to get the most out of the book. Many graphic novels do this. I do like how it was pretty extensive. The I have a dream speech was great towards the last quarter of the book; always inspired by that speech regardless, but was neat to read it in this format. 
2820	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	I appreciated and enjoyed the story's framework and content - this book is for people already familiar with King. If you are already very familiar with King's story, interpretation of the story is easier. It's not a complete story - you just get segments of his life. Anderson looks at King in his context, weaving in perspectives from people looking back at the events in addition to frames showing key moments as they unfold. Sometimes we hear from people who were close to Dr. King and the events, sometimes it is a casual observer. The narrative is also built from both King's fellow travelers and his detractors. A chaos and complexity comes through in the story along with choices and challenges faced along the way.  It was challenging to read, though. Anderson's art is beautiful, but the story-telling devices don't always work seamlessly. Several times, I had to step back to track what was going on and who was speaking. Sometimes that's good (you look more closely at the images), but I do think there are points where the graphic flow could have been improved. The art was dark and rough, which isn't necessarily a bad thing - gave opportunity for some beautiful and powerful contrasts, but it felt too heavy and messy after a while. That speakers were never explicitly identified was also frustrating. You can figure out main characters from a section tile or because someone says their name, but the external voices and narrators that bring in the broader context are never identified. Some context at least to place them would have been helpful. But as a piece of art, I can see all of the frustrating pieces being meaningful as part of the overall work.
2821	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	"Like some other reviews have pointed out. You need to understand and know MLKs life very well to follow this comic. With my limited knowledge, I, unfortunately, was left lost and confused and often thought the comic 'jumped' from one scenario to the next without much warning to its readers. The art style often changes, not from one ""chapter"" to the next but even from one panel to the next, making it confusing to connect characters from one image to another. You will definitely have very strong reviews for this graphic novel depending on your knowledge on MLK. I feel that if I had prepared myself with more information on his background and life story, I would have enjoyed and praised this text as others have. ENDING SPOILER What I did enjoy about this novel is that the author did not focus on MLKS death, nor who the shooter was. We focus on his personal life in connection to his public life and what he was able to do (and what he struggled to do) both with 'insider' knowledge of what was happening 'behind the scenes' (aka his private life) in relation to his public appearance in the movement and media. "
2822	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	"This book has a neat aesthetic to it that both makes the story more visceral and makes it hard to follow at times. There are whole pages of shadows or profiles conversing and I often found myself just reading the text without trying too hard to figure out who was saying what. Later in the book, this was improved by a consistent color code/scheme in the word bubbles. The subject matter for this book is uncomfortable for someone born in the 70s who never really got into history. And i found myself less often rejoicing in the victories than dismaying in the conditions that necessitated the struggle in the first place. So I don't know if I could say I ""enjoyed"" it, but it was very good and I am glad I read it. And it's a good way to get a feel for the emotional core of the civil rights movement, without getting into a long history book or depressingly graphic documentary. "
2823	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	"This is a major work that dares to humanize King by showing what a conflicted and complicated person he was. At the same time, Anderson pays appropriate tribute to his many accomplishments. One of the most ingenious methods of the book is to deliver parts of the story in a kind of ""oral testimony"" format, where we ""hear"" from those who knew King. Like another historian who works in the comic book format--Jack Jackson--Anderson deploys the elements of the medium to show how complex the task of historical reconstruction can be."
2824	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	An interesting angle on a MLK biography, presenting a very human King, accessible and flawed. The art was interesting and unique, but not particularly varied for the most part.  The choices of coloration, composition, and scene change gave the story a very chaotic, unsafe feel, which matched the time and King's life specifically.  a little too wordy for me to really appreciate it as a graphic novel. not enough was told through the art alone.
2825	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	I was really looking forward to reading this book as I love Martin Luther King and thought a Graphic Novel would be a fun presentation of his Biography. It was a huge letdown. The images were very dark, and characters looked different from one page to the next so I kept getting confused as to who was who. Conversations leaped around randomly. I'm only challenging the art because I am an illustrator myself, but I felt that this could have been much better. I couldn't get past page 20. Bummer.
2826	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	This book is a lovely piece of art, but I found it very difficult to read. The visual aesthetic was gorgeous, as far as the art went, but the speech bubbles looked like an afterthought and did not always clearly designate the speaker. I love this method of biography - abandoning chronological order, including outside opinions, and subverting the traditional narrative - but found this book visually challenging and very frustrating. 
2827	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Amazing artwork, and valiant effort to portray the life of such a legend. I also loved that at the end of the book he journals his 10 years of work to complete the book. The story, like others say jumps around a lot and you do really need to come to this book as a new perspective on information you already know and not a first time dip into King's life or you will not get nearly as much out of this work.
2828	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	It's called sequential art because you're supposed to be able to follow it from panel to panel. The author's abstract/every conversation in a darkened room style often obscures who is speaking. The change to color after the 'March on Washington' was interesting, but overall it was a tangled mass of explative studded arguments. Realism? Sure . . .but the name of the game is story-telling.
2829	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Excellent telling of MLK's story without showing him as a villain or a god. I think the black and white art that dominates the book keeps the reader at a distance. As a reader born after his death, I've only seen MLK in shades of gray; maybe he'd seem more real if he'd been shown in color and not like another history book photo.
2830	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Interesting look at the last few years of MLK's life. I like that Anderson presented MLK as human and not as a cultural icon. Artwork is great. Problems with flow of action and page layout. Beautiful to look at, difficult to read.
2831	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	I great look into MLK's personal life as well as his public one. It was great seeing MLK's speeches written in and with actual pictures from the times. I wish more bio's were written in graphic novel form. After reading, it's sad to see not much has changed since MLK was marching for equal rights.
2832	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	The graphics did not appeal to me.
2833	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	 Pretty good but it can be really hard to understand and some of the pictures are really weird-looking and dificult to get.
2834	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	An incredible (and controversial) depiction of MLK's activism in graphic form.
2835	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Stunning exploration and representation of this larger than life figure.
2836	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	Beautiful artwork and illustrations but very hard to follow.
2837	King:_A_Comics_Biography_of_Martin_Luther_King,_Jr.	This could be a textbook for how comic book biographies should be written. Engaging, personal, and emotional, King's turbulent life and times have been etched perfectly in fragments.
2838	Einstein	A fun and informative read!  I confess that I didn't really know a lot about Einstein before picking this one up. I was taught about what he discovered in school but never learnt about his upbringing or home life so this was a very interesting read!  In this book we see the life of Einstein in a comic-book strip format. I think the illustrations were fun and fitted well with the story - I would recommend to people of all ages, regardless of whether you're into science or not!
2841	Einstein	I had forgotten that I had read one of the authors books previously, her biography of Sigmund Freud. This book is just as enjoyable as that one and tells the story of Einstein. I look forward to tracking down her third biography of Karl Marx.
2842	Einstein	A quick, but, honest summary of Einstein's life. Faults and all.
2843	Einstein	Good illustration wasted on a badly written comic. Even if you want a very basic biography of Einstein this should not be read.
2844	Einstein	Why 4 stars? They did swear a little bit.
2846	Einstein	I liked the graphic part of this story and that is what got the book a three star from me. I was not sure how much of the facts were really just author opinion.
2849	Einstein	I liked it, but like it's subject, Einstein, this book is kind of all over the place. Not sure that it wouldn't just confuse people more. 
2852	Einstein	Einstein is a biographical graphic novel written by Corinne Maier and illustrated by Anne Simon. It chronicles the life of noted physicist Albert Einstein.  Albert Einstein was a German-born theoretical physicist who developed the theory of relativity, one of the two pillars of modern physics (alongside quantum mechanics).  Maier's witty and humanizing account of Einstein's childhood from his struggles in school, lack of professional direction in young adulthood, tumultuous romantic relationships, flight from Nazi occupation, and his uneasy relationship with worldwide fame.  Perhaps the greatest achievement for Maier and Simon is how they explained his biggest theories: General Relativity, Special Relativity, String Theory, which are all broken down into beautifully simple explanations with helpful and entertaining graphics.  Einstein is written and constructed rather well. In a deft translation, Maier's sharp, clever dialogue gives this portrayal a rapid pace, matched by Simon's energetic and spirited art. Though her figures are drawn in a relatively simple cartoon style, Simon's adroit panel and page composition illustrate not only Einstein’s life but the wonders of the cosmos.  All in all, Einstein is a savvy biographical graphic novel of Albert Einstein done in a memorable imaginative manner.
2854	Einstein	"This could be really a fun read if you're looking for a superficial overview of Einstein's life, and I mean that in the best possible way! Like a YA biography, or for someone under 30/40 who's never been exposed to anything about Einstein beyond he's a genius, E=MC squared, and that funny photo where he's sticking out his tongue. I would even say OK for 11 and up if the fact that Einstein was a womanizer isn't a problem... Anne Simon's illustrations are engaging and fun, but for me the content was just OK, but not great. If you've read, watched, listened to anything about his life, you won't find anything new here.  It was frustrating for me to read about the intellectual, physical, sexual and emotional labor of women that contributed to his genius. It isn't news to me and Maier just presented it at face value, didn't call this into question. We just love our icons, our stars, but god forbid we admit just how much the old saying was/is true, ""behind every good man there's a great woman"" - or in Einstein's case, several."
2855	Einstein	three and a half?  Surprisingly informative for it's rough style, science and history mashed together with his life much as it was in reality. A free-form telling with a narrative curve. Things are mentioned briefly or expanded depending on their importance to him with famous quotes peppering the course of the story in a natural fashion.  I don't know if this was done to mirror Einstein's style or if this is the style of the writer, but it was very effective.  Enjoy!
2856	Einstein	A graphic novel hitting the high points of Einstein's life. Prudently doesn't try to get to much into the math in his work. The artist tries to illustrate the flights of his mind in her drawings. Seemed a bit rushed, but the book is only 72 pages. The art is simplistic but more or less gets the jobs done. Made me want to read more about Einstein's life.
2857	Einstein	left me with a very confused view of Einstein and his choices in life. was he a schmuck, a mensch or a genius or a bringer of doom? certainly, I'm questioning that pivotal lightbulb moment where he realized a critical fact about himself, was that the author's surmise or fact? The ARTIST Anne Simon gets 5 stars i love her work, but the way the book was written accounts for the low score.
2858	Einstein	Pretty good. I learned a few things about Einstein I didn't already know, and liked the graphic novel style format. The book jumped around in time quite a bit (deliberately, I think?) which got a little confusing in places. Not for young kids, as it covers multiple sexual relationships.
2859	Einstein	A solid warts and all account of Einstein’s life. I quick and informative read. My least favourite of the three by Maier but worth a read.
2861	Einstein	Very cleverly written and drawn bio of Einstein, warts and all. 
2862	Einstein	Not much to say, it was informative, playful and a quick read. I enjoyed it and passed it on to my kid who also seemed to like it.
2864	Einstein	Interesting characterizations and interesting anecdotes. Einstein was a smart dude, apparently, 
2865	Einstein	Note: I accessed a digital review copy of this book through Edelweiss.
2867	Einstein	Fun spin on a his bio with facts and humor Einstein not perfect, and shows his successes and sorrows Bits on family were new to me 
2868	Einstein	Good graphic bio of Einstein
2869	Einstein	In this graphic novel, we learn that Einstein was very bright from the start. Though his mother was concerned because even as a toddler, he didn't speak. As it turned out, he was waiting until he could speak in full sentences. He was so smart that he was bored in class, causing his instructor to throw him out of the class. How did he react to this situation? When his music teacher quit because of his bad temperament, did he quit playing the violin? How did the other students perceive him as a Jew? He met his first wife, Mileva Maric at the University. She was as smarter, possibly even smarter than her husband. This probably was one of the reasons that their marriage ended in such a disaster. Einstein married again to his cousin, Elsa. The novel highlights his theory of general relativity which at the end of his life was his greatest regret. I recommend this book to lovers of biography, and to science enthusiasts.
2870	Einstein	"Einstein the Person - Genius, Egotist, Horndog, Celebrity  There isn't much here in the way of physics, apart from a fairly perfunctory treatment of Einstein's special and general theories of relativity, but that's O.K. The book more or less takes as a given the reader's awareness of Einstein's scientific contributions, and focuses on looking behind that to sketch out a much fuller biography than most readers would expect.  Einstein was a complex and private man who played the role of public genius to perfection. The book cleverly builds Einstein's most famous quotes into the narrative and into his speech balloons, (""God does not play dice with the universe"", and so on). Especially important, and sort of remarkable, it even puts these quotes in their proper context. For example the God-and-dice quote was a summation of Einstein's rejection of the uncertainty principle underlying quantum physics, not a religious statement. That becomes crystal clear in the book.  What we really see is hints about Einstein the man. He was a terrible husband, a flirt and a serial philanderer. He was uninvolved in his own family. His personal life, practically from birth until his death, was messy, complicated and tangled. You get that from this book. Professionally, Einstein enjoyed praise and recognition, and could feud bitterly; you get hints of that as well. As one of the world's first intellectual celebrities, he learned how to charm, avoid and manipulate the popular press, and you get that as well.  The upshot is that this is no hagiography and we don't get an idealized Saint Einstein. What we get is much more interesting. And, oddly enough, the graphic book format is a great way to introduce this Einstein. I don't want to read 450 pages of letters, diary entries and reminiscences from acquaintances. I want a brisk introduction and eye-opener, and that's what you get here.  (Please note that I received a free advance ecopy of this book in exchange for a candid review. Apart from that I have no connection at all to either the author or the publisher of this book.)"
2871	Einstein	 This is a jolie graphic biography, written like a time-bending autobiography, with Einstein as the first-person narrator.  I really like the art style, and the text is informative without being overwhelming. Reading Einstein, we learn how Einstein grew up, how he had to go to adult-ed to get his GED equivalent, and then went to a community college equivalent, how he stood on the shoulders of giants, how he wasn't the best mathematician ever but had brilliant ideas and incredible curiosity, how he liked the ladies and didn't treat his first wife or kids very well, and how he fought for peace, justice and equality.  Einstein could have used maybe another half-dozen pages of content to satisfactorily-present a 'brief history of Einstein', but it is quite illuminating and whets the appetite for a deeper read of this fascinating, famous individual.  Bonus: It does a good job of explaining E=MC(squared)  *Extra note: This version is en français*  True Rating: 4.2 Stars
2872	Einstein	"Excellent graphic biography on Einstein focusing on his Theory of Relativity. I've read the book on Marx which the author wrote in this series and had great expectations for this one which were thoroughly realised. An amazing amount of information has been conveyed and takes a look all facets of Einstein: his accomplishments, his detractors, his personality and his weaknesses (mainly philandering). The story is told from Einstein's point of view with him hovering over as perhaps his old self or ""ghost"", all-knowingly telling his tale with hindsight. Many famous Einstein quips can be found amongst the dialogue and it is both informative and entertaining. An excellent addition to Maier's series of biographies on (so far) great 20th century minds."
2874	Einstein	A humorous and quick look at Einstein's personal and scientific life. I liked the start with the different opinions of Einstein (genius, legend, womanizer, neglectful father, pacifist, etc) and the segue into his childhood. Typical panels for much of the book with some larger panels and full page art sprinkled throughout. I learned more about Einstein although I still don't understand relativity.
2875	Einstein	If you want to read a biography of Einstein in just an afternoon, this is the book for you. An engaging depiction of one of the world’s greatest minds in a format that entertains and educates. I’m always fond of graphics to help students have a greater understanding of the text, and this is a great resource for students.
2876	Einstein	OK.
2877	Einstein	Relatively enjoyable.
2878	Einstein	Nicely done, about the man rather than the myth or the physics.
2879	Einstein	Einstein figuring out his theories skateboarding on a moebius strip... fucking genius. Her bios are too short and general for my tastes but the expression and fluidity is amazing.
2880	Einstein	A pulls-no-punches biography of Einstein that shows his genius as well as his faults.
2881	Einstein	A quick and informative read on the life of Einstein 
2882	Einstein	I had no idea about 3/4 of this stuff! Graphic novel that is way better than reading a biography. 
2883	Einstein	I learned a lot. I did not know about Einstein's views about Israel or that his second wife was his first cousin, for example.
2884	Marx	This is an audacious premise for a book about possibly the most famous and influential political philosopher in the past two hundred years: let's try to summarize Marx's life and work in 60 pages. 60 pages! Why?! Hey, why stop there, let's see if we can do it in a haiku! But I think they did it (and they don't say why) because the name Marx or the label Marxist gets thrown around a lot. And they know few people outside of scholars are going to read Capital or even The Communist Manifesto. Why not give people a fun Guide to Marx on $5 a day? I just thought I would see what they would do with it, and I know Marx a bit. And I liked what they did.  Much published psychoanalyst Maier and accomplished artist Anne Simon have fun with this premise, this challenge, and try to be light, with some jokes scattered throughout as they try to both get at the heart of his life and ideas. I like that series that has in it Foucault for Beginners, comics guides to High Theory. Fun and surprisingly thoughtful and useful in getting at the heart of Foucault, I really do think. Maier's Marx is more biographical than the purely theoretical Foucault For Beginners, and that's reductive, too. But that's the point, to see if they can get to the essence without failing to entertain, and I say it works.  I am reminded of a bunch of trashy mini comics I got a few years ago in a yard sale. Classics in 60 pages.. all of them in 60 pages, exactly: Crime and Punishment, Pride and Prejudice, Moby Dick, each of them in precisely 60 pages! Hilarious. A perfect example of the very reason a lot of people think comics dumb down the culture. But Maier and Simon have a serious aim to introduce Marx to the general public. I think it's pretty good, and if you don't feel like you know Marx and want to know him, start here! 60 pages won't hurt, come on!
2885	Marx	This is a fun and somewhat comical introduction to Marx's life and philosophy. The writer illustrator team keep it fairly light but it's engaging and not unsophistication in its way. They do a great job of pointing out the distance between Marx's philosophical ideals and his lived experience (and how different a theory can be from an actuality, I think). I got this and their book on Freud out of the library and enjoyed them both very much, thought they were both pleasantly cheeky, and would happily read them again. 
2886	Marx	"Marx: An Illustrated Biography Corinne Maier & Anne Simon 2013 61 pages  Comic-book biography of Karl Marx.  Born 1818.  ""Property is theft."" --Proudhon  ""Labor is the source of wealth."" --David Ricardo  To Paris, 1943, age 25.  To Brussels, 1845, age 27.  Communist Manifesto, 1848, age 30.  To England, 1849, age 31. Fathers a child with his maid.  Capital, vol. 1, 1867.  Engels worked on vols 2 & 3 after Marx died in 1883.  Engels died in 1895. "
2887	Marx	"It's a tall order, to try and capture such an extensive subject such as Karl Marx in about 60 pages of comics. Wisely, the authors didn't try to explain all his theory in depth, but instead crafted an introduction to his life, with a few key points of his life's work. As such it succeeds. It gives the reader an insightful and oftentimes humorous look at Marx. The book does a good job at that, presenting Marx' vices and virtues, not avoiding his contractions but also not falling in the trap of focusing solely on them.  I also especially liked the last few pages, which talk about how his ideas were applied by some people after his death, taking an educated guess at how he would've felt about them. It's a nice concept, and it could've been expanded into a standalone work, I believe.  Maier knows exactly how much information to dose out without making too contrived not too shallow, and Simon's art convey the moments depicted in a simple but very effective way, sometimes adding more meaning or humor through the illustrations, the mark of a good comics creator. The result is an engaging work that may leave its readers wanting to know more about Marx' ideas.  It may be a little hard to determine who's the ""target audience"" for this book. I've heard it described as ""Marx for Kids"", but I don't think that is accurate, since some parts of the text may still be too complex for children. Perhaps teenagers and young adults might be a good bet. But then again, I don't worry too much about things like target audiences. Anyone looking to get an introduction to Karl Marx should be happy to find this book."
2888	Marx	"If you're looking for a graphic novel that explains and analyzes Marxist thought at a 101 philosophy or poly sci level, you'll be sorely disappointed with this book. Corinne Maier and Anne Simon fill these 60 pages more with a story of the life of Marx, Engels, and their families, *amidst* their theoretical and activist projects.  I've studied under a proselytizing Marxist philosophy department head, who sufficiently convinced me that capitalism is incompatible with human and ecological rights, but did not convince me to be a Marxist. This book is not a proselytizing piece of propaganda by any means. If anything, it shows Marx more as a bourgeois seeker of money who wants to tell the proletarian class what *they ought to be doing* from his armchair and committees rather than practicing what he preaches.  The final pages of the book were the most interesting to me, as we watch the ghost of Marx observe and comment briefly on events spread out after his death, ending with the 2008 financial crisis, and the mostly-successful mass lie that ""there is no alternative option to capitalism."""
2890	Marx	Good, breezy graphic introduction to Marx's life and philosophy with some nice touches of humor. 
2891	Marx	I read a book called Marx in 60 Minutes... this was vastly better. A pretty straightforward graphic biography, Marx was treated with kindness and humor rather than fear and suspicion. This one only took about 60 minutes as well.
2893	Marx	"I really liked this. The history of communism is a fairly recent interest of mine (only a few years worth of personal study) especially that of China and Russia. I haven't read much on Marx yet and found this an intriguing primer on the man. The book is very well written. Usually when I start a book of this sort the author will show themselves to be leftist very clearly early on but Maier never sides with Marx and tells an almost unbiased story. Everything thing that Marx thought was abjectly good or just wonderful about his vision of communism is countered by a reasonable thought from his detractors, showing both sides of the story here very well. It is a short book written at about a teen level so does not get too indepth. But Marx's main area of expertise was economics and a lot of time is spent on his ideals that Communism will fix the economy of a Capitalist society and that revolution is the only answer to making that change. I like the art which is done in full colour but black and red are the predominant colours making one think ""communist"". This has let me get my toes wet on the subject and piqued my interest in reading more in this direction."
2894	Marx	A slim, graphic novel biography of Karl Marx, for a YA audience (which I didn’t realize when I bought it). The illustrations are fun and witty, the text focused more on Marx’s life than his ideas and their effect on the world, which would have been more interesting, but admittedly that’s a tall order. I didn’t come away with any great insights, though I did learn that Marx was kicked out of a couple of countries
2895	Marx	I think that what I liked about this, (it is fast and loose) might also be what I did Not like about it: (it is fast and loose [in telling the biographical story of an actual person's life])  So yeah, I guess I had mixed feelings about it, though, on the whole I am grateful for the quick high-lights of an interesting and controversial man's life-story.  
2897	Marx	In another time this would be good. But there are so many sophisticated examples of works highlighting the thoughts and tribulations of great thinkers that made this work superficial at best.  This books is best suited towards those who know nothing about Marx and his legacy and wish to stay this way.  Enjoy!
2898	Marx	I think you could call this a whirlwind tour of Marx's life. It reads as a graphic gloss on a more substantial biography, for the are a lot of gaps in the narrative proper. Knowing the details of Marx's life would have helped fill in the gaps and paste together the fragments.
2899	Marx	"This beautifully-illustrated graphic novel is an introduction to the life of the famed Karl Marx and how his theories were eventually abused by the so-called ""communists"" in China and Soviet Union, whom he would never have approved of if he had lived to see those societies."
2901	Marx	Marx is a biographical graphic novel written by Corinne Maier and illustrated by Anne Simon. It chronicles the life of noted philosopher Karl Marx.  Karl Heinrich Marx was a German philosopher, economist, historian, sociologist, political theorist, journalist, and socialist revolutionary.  Maier give a full account of Marx's life, from his early encounters with anti-Semitism and censorship to his never-ceasing struggle for the working class. It delves into Marx's private history, from his loving relationship with his daughters to his affair with the family’s maid, and his reliance on his wife’s inheritances to make ends meet.  Marx is written and constructed moderately well. Simon's whimsical and vivid art is delightful, turning Marx’s travels into thrilling adventures. Overall, though, this is an excellent graphic novel biography that shows how well the medium can capture the twists, turns, triumphs, and defeats of a remarkable life.  All in all, Marx is a strange, surprisingly sweet, and informative biographical graphic novel of Karl Marx.
2903	Marx	A nice primer on Marx's life. Cute drawings. They do that thing where they letter the text balloons in all caps except for the letter i, which they keep in lower case. Too cute by half, if you ask me.  One thing I appreciate in this book is their depiction of the irony (perhaps hypocrisy) of Marx living a bougie life with servants and salaries, etc. It's pretty cool to have stuff, isn't it? It's pretty nice to earn a living for one's self and family.
2906	Marx	Exhausting; so much telling, so little showing.
2907	Marx	A good if very brief look at Karl Marx’s life and ideas. It’s a good little overview and I would recommend to anyone that wants a basic understanding of his ideas.
2909	Marx	Light and perharps superficial about Marx's life, but I can't really judge about that since I know virtually nothing about him. Still, I enjoyed it for what it was.
2916	Marx	For an interesting person, this was a pretty dry read. To be fair, he's not someone I personally admire, so that may have impacted this rating.
2917	Marx	"The Short: I really had a good time reading this book. It was short and sweet, but really told about Marx's life. It was really interesting to look at his thoughts and dissect how his ideals came to grow in today's society. His ideas are still relevant today, and he did a very good job of knowing what he thought, and putting that into action.  The Good:  It was funny. There were random bits of humor put into this book, and I really enjoyed it. Whether it was a comical drawing or just something one of the characters said, I greatly appreciated it. The drawings were fantastic. All the characters looked so unique, and you could actually tell who was who when looking at the pictures. The drawing were very stylized, and I had a good time just looking at them and I did more than once find myself saying, ""Wow, I wish I could draw even half as good as this artist can."" The story was interesting. You got a look at Karl Marx's life without it being too much because if you're reading this book for an in-depth look into Marx's life you won't be satisfied, but all I wanted was a short and aesthetically peaking look into his life, and impact. That was exactly what I got. The book didn't stretch on too long, nor was it too short to where I didn't learn anything. I loved the times when we took a break from his life and learned about what he was writing about. The book did a very good job explaining some of his key concepts with very few words. I really respected the authors' ability to do that. The use of the pictures was marvelous. The pictures were not just to make the book look good, but they were also visual aids to help you understand what you're reading about. I said this last time I read a Nobrow Press book, and I'll say it again, THE QUALITY OF THIS BOOK IS SO GOOD. Not just the content, but also the physical book. The hardcover is very high quality, and the paper was very thick, so the pictures were vibrant. Also, the size of the book was right for the story. It is a different size than Map of Days by Robet Hunter, the other Nobrow book I read, and the size of the book seems to depend on what the story and the art require. Thank you to Nobrow Press for knowing how to make a book. The Bad: It moved a bit too quickly. One minute he was a kid, then the next panel he is going to college. There was not enough introduction to the characters, and the events that took place. You were supposed to assume who the characters were to Marx, but it was never really explicitly said."
2919	Marx	3.5 stars A brief glimpse into the life of Karl Marx. An intro, don't expect a textbook. Enjoyable illustrations.
2920	Marx	Who would think about creating a graphic novel biography of philosopher Karl Marx? I'm glad someone did. Although the book doesn't get into great depth about his theories and influential writings that would eventually spawn revolutions, it does provide a brief overview of his life and the poverty with which he also struggled. There are some humorous moments, and readers can see that Marx was conflicted about money and the evils of capitalism. There's a lot to think about while reading the book, including what could possibly replace capitalism and why we as a society are such consumers of goods that we don't actually need all that much. I would have liked to have read more about his formative years and seen more passages from his writings, but this book is a wonderful place for curious readers to start. 
2921	Marx	" For many, Karl Marx is the author of The Communist Manifesto and the ""devil for decrying Capitalism."" His support of a world ""free from exploitation, inequality, unemployment"" was championed by minorities and those searching for equal rights and justice; however, many disagreed with his revolutionary solutions. This is Maier and Simon's second book, the first being the biography on Sigmund Freud. The illustrated book begins with Marx's birth in 1818 in Trier. Even then, Marx was ahead of his time. Young and incredibly smart, Marx was quick to fight against a capitalist system. Read my full review at reviewscomingatya.blogspot.com."
2922	Marx	Maier and Simon have pulled off an impressive feat describing Marx's life, the sociopolitical context in which he lived, and his basic philosophies, in only 60 illustrated pages. It's definitely a light overview, buoyed by Simon's endearing illustrations, not an in-depth course in political philosophy or economics. I'd say it's a good introduction for high schoolers, early college students, or anyone who appreciates history or sociology but hasn't formally studied Marx already. For those of us who did study Marxist theories, this book is a nice refresher that may also impart interesting new tidbits about Marx's life.
2923	Marx	nice little graphic biography - a beautiful format. the book approaches his life in interesting and challenging ways. Marx's authoritarianism is revealed along with his genius. however, many important matters and ideas are dealt with in very little detail or slightly skewed to fit the size and narrative of the book. Marx's disastrous involvement in the International Workingmen's Association is especially glossed over. nevertheless, a nice little read in the same genre as Emma Goldman's graphic biography, though not as important or beautifully drawn.
2924	Marx	I love how the graphic medium can condense a story/life to its essence... but I suspect this biography went a tad too far. Cutting to single word proclamations in juxtaposition, it did have a (sometimes comic) effect but the subjects felt trivialized and didn't really explain beyond what I already knew (and probably missed a lot of nuance? my fault or theirs?). Too bad: other non-fiction graphic novels (wrong word 'novels' but how else are they called?) have been succinct and powerful beyond what any full length book could do.
2925	Marx	Well worth reading. I learned a lot about Marx, both his ideas and his family. They got a lot of their money from inheritances, and were sometimes very poor, and sometimes quite rich. He had mostly or all daughters, some of whom ended up doing a lot of his work.  Another great example of how much you can learn from reading a graphic novel.
2926	Marx	A nice short bio on Marx. Hits most of the important points, and even though it is obviously pro-Marx, it isn't afraid to show that he was a human, and thus imperfect. If I had to give one complaint, they portrayed Marx as a bit more scheming that I think he was, but that didn't really detract from the book for me. 
2927	Marx	A quite short but entertaining biography on Marx. A perfect introduction to a man whose name is more associated with an idea, but whose reputation needs the humanizing it gets in this book. Most importantly, it is clear that these are ideas are always in flux and that even the people who espouse them do not (or cannot) live up to them fully.
2928	Marx	"This was a good graphic intro to Marx's life. I had wished the authors weren't so ""aha!"" at every hypocritical juncture; we're all big ol' hypocrites at some point, and ""this guy"" was no exception. Lexile range is a bit up there; it'll most likely be going in the upper school library. In all, a critical look at Marx's work, life, and legacy. "
2929	Marx	A nicely illustrated little graphic novel (mini-biography?). The book outlines Marx's life and theories fairly humorously. Obviously not a comprehensive account (A couple of reviewers complained about this; I'm not sure how that'd be possible in a 60 page comic), but a quick and entertaining read.
2930	Marx	Pros: Great humor on an often unfunny subject. Revealing of life as well as philosophy. I like the art style for this kind of comic.  Cons: Got lost a couple times. Transitions were not always smooth
2931	Marx	A lot of telling rather than showing, but an engaging light-hearted read. Not a very complete intro to Marxist thought (or whatever Marx actually believed). Marx comes off as a hypocrite and quite naive.
2932	Marx	Short graphic biography and includes comical juxtaposition of his bourgeois lifestyle against his famous opposition to said group. If you want far more fun and detail, check out the Marx biography by Francis Wheen.
2935	Marx	Too many story cuts. Didn't feel like I got a indepth look at Marx's life.
2936	Marx	3.5 stars - To be discussed soon on The Comics Alternative Podcast.
2938	Marx	Would 4.5 this, can't, so, rounding up.
2939	Marx	This is a great little graphic novel/biography of Marx. 
2940	Marx	Proletarians, come together! The time is now!
2941	Marx	very well illustrated, good for a first start in history some of the fonts were hard to read though. 
2942	Marx	At times hilarious other times just factual. Great way to learn about types of societies and a bit of history on Marx. 
2944	Marx	There were some gaps in the story but other than that it was really good
2945	Marx	A graphic novel. Not bad.
2946	Marx	Fun illustrations, but redundant and superficial.
2947	Marx	A cool comic book, second in the series about influential and controversial figures of history. It condenses his theory and resulting movements into colorful and dare I say cute drawings and text bubbles! Great.
2948	Marx	 (4.5 Stars!)  I remember reading “The Communist Manifesto” over ten years ago but aside from that I haven’t really read too much on Marx since then. Although I am familiar with most of his basic concepts I learned a lot from this handy little book. I had no idea that he had been kicked out of Germany, France and Belgium before ending up in England. I also had no idea that he lost so many children to various diseases either.  I found this to be an informative, enjoyable and easily digestible summary of Marx and his life. It’s nicely drawn with good colouring and it also leaves enough room for play and humour, making it a nice gateway text before breaking into the more, potentially daunting work by and on Marx.
2949	Marx	Funny way how to present the creation of the communism...but contains all important events and describe the idea forming process...
2950	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Belgian Rene Magritte was a surrealist painter. Images abound of his wearing a bowler, and bowlers are featured in several of his paintings. Here he is wearing it, and 368 of his most famous paintings.  https://www.wikiart.org/en/rene-magritte  D. B. Johnson focused on that hat in a children’s picture book biography of Magritte:  https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...  To art scholars and those interested in epistemology, he is known for—among other things--this painting, which asserts an idea—“The Treachery of Images: This is Not a Pipe,” because it actually is a painting of a pipe, drawn in a kind of hyper-realist style:  https://www.wikiart.org/en/rene-magri...  Michel Foucault wrote a short book about it that you can read here:  https://monoskop.org/images/9/99/Fouc...  This comics/illustrated biography is part of the Self Made Hero Art Masters series that also includes Van Gogh, Munch, Gauguin, Dali and Picasso (as of this date) and they are not for kids, particularly; they are serious artistic engagements with great artists that have the courage/audacity to get in aesthetic conversation with the masters without deifying them. Magritte, as with many others above, seemed to have had, uh, “complicated” relationships with [sometimes several] women, so some details might not be appropriate for the kiddies, your call.  In this volume that Magritte’s biographers claim is not a biography, the premise seems a little corny, initially, but then it really comes to work. The biographer within this non-biography (sorry, stay with me here) is Charles Singulier, who puts on a bowler and can’t take it off until he learns everything he can about Magritte, including meeting his muse, Georgette. Magritte later lived the life of a bourgeois, though a revolutionary thinker, though some people thought he sold out for commercial success later.  The art style is more realist than Magritte’s most surrealistic works, but the story is surreal enough, jumping into scenes from his past jumping into paintings, and so on. And we read several analytical observations and some of his statements throughout, including:  “Every object conceals another.”  “The painter’s eye is a false image.”  “Real life is always in a somewhere else that doesn’t exist.”  “Painting must not act as a passive mirror of reality, but rather, to transform it.”  This is a fun and thought-provoking book about Magritte, surrealism, and the provocations that art can sometimes enact.
2951	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A man buys a bowler hat that magically transports him into the surrealist world of painter Rene Magritte, surrounded by the artist’s images and themes. Why a bowler hat? Because of Magritte’s most famous painting, The Son of Man (the businessman in a bowler hat whose face is obscured by a green apple).  In Magritte: This is Not a Biography, writer Vincent Zabus takes the imaginative approach to tell a non-fiction biography in the form of a fictional narrative. Because of this style and the book’s shortness, it’s not the most thorough overview but you get a general idea of Magritte’s life and the ideas behind his work. By far the most impressive aspect of the book is Thomas Campi’s painted art which adopts, replicates and incorporates Magritte’s style beautifully into the narrative.  That said, I admired the book more than I enjoyed it. Neither the contrived story nor the subject’s life was that interesting or entertaining but I appreciated the remarkable talent that went into the visuals enormously and I did learn a fair bit too. Magritte: This is Not a Biography is worth a look for any comics fan after a quick taste of this painter’s life and art.
2952	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A surrealistic biography of Magritte is fitting, I suppose, but it is also too clever by half. It’s funny how I can find a surrealistic image to be quite arresting, but more often than not a surrealistic story to be annoying.
2953	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Why is it too short?  I can say there's not much plot but the artstyle is like I entered an art gallery while I was reading this comic.  Some parts may be offensive to some readers regarding some double meaning dialogues and some parts trying to focus on nudity.  I don't even want to understand the plot. Let it be.  And one main thing I dislike was how stinger the dialogue bubbles are.
2954	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	3.5  I stupidly expected this to be more of a straightforward biography, but probably should have been tipped off by the subtitle 'This is not a biography' and the fact that Magritte is one of the most famous surrealist artists in the world and therefore a book about him is always going to be a bit surreal. The illustrations however are stunning, probably 5 stars to those. And there are some amusing lines eg ''I don't even know your first name.'' ''What an intimate question! I refuse to tell until you've kissed me.''
2955	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Thomas Campi's artwork is beautiful, Vincent Zabus's story is non-sensical and offers very little information about Magritte himself. The subtitle is apt: this is not a biography. I kinda wanted it to be one. If you stumble across this book in an art museum gift store, it's certainly worth a skim for the art. I'd recommend skipping the words though.
2958	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	PDF - Extremely well done and beautifully drawn biography/tribute album, that echos Magritte's themes and works in effective and surprising ways.
2960	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	I can't help but compare this with the other books in the Art Masters series, some of which I've loved, others I've liked less. Unfortunately this falls in the latter category. I think that so far, they've all been visually stunning, borrowing from the artists' style and famous works, the books have all had a great style but I just wasn't able to connect with Campi on this journey. Maybe it was because of my lack of experience with and knowledge of Magritte's works but I would have hoped that this book would have been a bit more accessible.
2965	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	I originally picked this book up when my husband and I went to our second Magritte showing at SF MOMA a few years ago. I didn't know a lot about Magritte, aside from the sensibilities that were mentioned in the show's notes. This graphic novel tells a lot about it, but through the experience of Charles, who has been charged with learning about Magritte to get the damned bowler hat unstuck from his head. During the tale, he walks through many of Magritte's best-known scenes, while learning about his childhood joys and traumas, his various jobs, his wife, his travels, and what many of his contemporaries considered his sell-out. However, it is all told in its own ingenious way, with a surreal filter that could only be inspired by the master himself, which I appreciated. Although I wouldn't consider this a perfect resource for research about the painter, it will give you enough exposure to his life's details and his best-known paintings to want to dig deeper. Note: it is one in a series published by SelfMadeHero that includes Munch, Picasso, Dalí, Gauguin, and Van Gogh, according to the information in the back.
2966	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	"A man buys a bowler hat unaware that it was once owned by surrealist painter Rene Magritte. When he dons the hat, he is transported into a surreal world where he is required to solve the mystery of Magritte before he will be allowed to remove the hat. Through various interactions with guides and biographers, he learns about Magritte and his wife, their lives and influences. In the end, he is confronted by Magritte himself who claims there are no answers before sending our protagonist back to reality. A lovely little book that mimics Magritte's style and tells a bit about the artist in an""unbiography"" fashion."
2967	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A strange graphic novel about a man who gets sucked into learning about Rene Magritte...a surrealist journey fitting the artist's work. I found it a little hard to follow...but part of that is getting used to the graphic novel medium. Favorite part...Campi's oil paintings and watercolors of the central character and his signature bowler hat at the end. P.S. I had the English translation...would be fun to give the French a try!
2968	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	I don't think I've ever read a book or graphic novel as interesting and unique as this one. This is such a great book to introduce kids to not only the artists and their work but also their concept, background, and way of thinking all within a fictional story inspired by truth.
2971	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A man puts on a bowler hat and gets transported through the life of Rene Margritte.  Like the painter, the book itself is surreal. There's no real explanation on why things happen or how, they just do and the man moves through Margritte's life as if on a walking tour. The book isn't that long, so we get brief glimpses of the painters childhood, adolescence, and adulthood, all while the man in the bowler hat tries to understand why he is on this journey. He is accompanied by a woman, who may or may not be Margritte's wife, and who moves surrealistically as well.  I thought this was pretty entertaining but I did want more. I guess I was looking for more of an actual biography - and this wasn't really that. Not that its bad, but its more of an experimental glimpse towards a subject who dealt in surrealism. It was an interesting way to tell the story, without really getting too in depth.  I think this was fun, but not very much in the way of depth. However, if you are a fan of the painter, I would definitely recommend it.
2972	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	3.5 STARS - A quick read that delves you into Magritte's life, one of the most famous 20th-century surrealist painter. It's perfect for art amateurs such as myself who wants to learn a little about surrealism. The biography is concise; we don't get full details of the events of his life but it's enough to understand what kind of man he was. The art style is pretty, the color vibrant and the way Campi re-appropriated the paintings in his own way was aesthetically pleasing. Besides, the whole graphic novel was overall visually beautiful. However, I found the story a bit lacking in pacing. It all goes too fast and escalated quickly. It becomes difficult to follow our main character getting stuck in Magritte's paintings. I turned a little dizzy at the end by all the hasty actions. But the ending was sweet and I enjoyed my reading.
2974	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	"On a whim, I snagged this off the New Graphic Novels section at my library because that title is just too good. I realized that I knew pretty much nothing about Magritte, other than his ""This is not a hat"" painting, so reading it was a nice primer. The story is pretty weird. I kept thinking, ""This is really surreal,"" and then mentally facepalming because DUH, it's about a surrealist painter. The art in the panels is beautiful and made this graphic novel stand out to me. Fair warning for some profanity and partial nudity."
2978	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	This is not a biography, but it has enough biographical content to satisfy my curiosity. Blending graphic novel-esque panelling with miniature reproductions of Magritte's art, the author/creator takes us on a wild and surreal journey through the artist's life. This was a phenomenal way to learn about an artist. Apparently there are a handful of other books like this in the 'Art Masters' series and I can't wait to read them as well.
2979	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	more like a 3.5. the format is very fun, with plenty of surrealism, fourth-wall breaking, and characters breaking out of panels. i don't think i knew enough about magritte beforehand to really enjoy it, because i didn't catch all the references to his work. and it's (as the title states) not really a biography. it definitely gives an overview of his life, but also assumes you know a lot already and doesn't go into much detail. great art, though.
2981	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	This is a graphic novel in English here in the US. This is the second biographical graphic novel it have read and I just find it difficult to truly enjoy them. That said this one is of particular interest because it does give a visual context to the artist and his work. It also tries to further develop the works with what the artist was trying to convey. It is a very quick read.
2984	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A cute and clever way to do a graphic biography: a haunted bowler hat forces a normal guy to explore surrealism and Magritte, the absent ghost guiding him through bizarre worlds and ideas behind his paintings and personal life. 
2985	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	I loved this so much! The art is just spectacular and had me staring at a page for several minutes at a time. I was smiling the entire time I read this and when I was done went back and just spent more time looking at the illustrations! Can't wait to read the rest in the series. 
2986	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Amazing in every sense. The art is a delight. The subject matter intriguing and insightful. I wish this was printed on better quality paper and much bigger. It deserves the attention. I finished it hungry to explore Magritte and lose myself in his world. A delightful work.
2987	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	I wanted to like this more than I did, but it was still decent. It's more of a tour of Magritte's art (themes, concepts) than of Magritte's life, and more of an arty adventure tale than anything else, so: well played, title-writer. Well played.
2988	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	I really enjoyed the artwork in this book. The storyline and plot had the potential to be very charming and informative, but I feel as though the book itself was too short. Overall, the reading experience was just simply fine. 
2989	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	The artwork and art style were interesting and enjoyable, but the narrative part of the comic was a letdown. I felt like I didn’t come away from it knowing much more about Magritte than I knew going in. The framing device wasn’t clever enough or interesting enough to be worth the number of pages it took up.
2990	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Wonderfully illustrated and narrated biography of Magritte; compels me to read others in the Art Masters series.
2991	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	much better than the sartre one. older teens. good opening intro to surrealism
2993	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Magritte was always one of my favourite artists, so this was really cool and touched upon a lot of his life in a short number of pages! The art is formidable!!
2994	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A graphic non-biography of surrealist artist Magritte told by and to a man who happens to buy his bowler hat and all that ensues? 4* very close to 5*
2995	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A man buys a bowler hat and is launched into a surrealist world modeled after painter Renee Magritte. My favorite part is the beautiful art of the comics. 
2996	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Quirky, imaginative. Good adjunct to the recent retrospective of Magritte's work at the SFMOMA.
2997	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	This story seems to be emulating the style of the artist it's about. It wonderfully challenged thinking in a usual way, and I appreciated it greatly.
2998	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Take the title seriously! It's not a biography but a lovely meditation on Magritte. Lovely art.
2999	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Incredible story of Renee Magritte, the surrealist master. Even though this is not a biography it offers many details of his life. 
3000	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	I loved the ending to this book!
3001	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Sweet illustrations with clever uses of Magritte's paintings. Not super interesting/detailed on the actual biography side though.
3002	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A sort of stealth biography in graphic novel form.
3004	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Enjoyable and entertaining way to learn more about Magritte's life.
3005	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	This was crazy! Probably no more so than Magritte's art obviously but as someone that has shown little curiosity for his work, until now, this neat little non-biography has peaked my interest.
3006	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Fun book to read (English translation)
3007	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Clever presentation of an artist I liked but didn’t know much about. Would like to read more of these graphic novels in the Art Masters series. 
3008	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	short and concise. As the cover states, it is not a biography. 
3009	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Pretty, shallow, definitely not a biography. For a man as important to art as Magritte, I'd prefer something more sprawling.
3010	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A quick read and interesting look into Magritte's life. I've always enjoyed graphic novels and am now interested in reading the other books in this series about other artists. The artwork is lovely.
3012	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	I liked this one better than Dalí’s.
3014	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	2.5 stars. Liked the drawing style but not the story
3015	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	This was fine. It was interesting and informative, and the art is nice. 
3016	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	A brief bio that quickly looks at some of the causes and tensions under one of the most mainstream f surrealists.
3017	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Not what I expected but delightful!
3019	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Cute and imaginative, with plenty of fun details for those familiar with Magritte's work.
3021	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	My feelings about this book are significantly colored by the fact that I paid 30€ for it and then found it at the Magritte Museum in Brussels for around 14€.  I WAS SCAMMED AND MAGRITTE WOULD LAUGH AT ME.  --- writing this 4 days later: it was meh.
3022	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Nothing is what it seems, but to me, now, this book seems like a perfect ode to the surrealist painter that has always intruiged and fascinated me with his imaginary. I would be honored if one made such a beautiful interpretation of my art and life, becoming a work of art in its turn.
3023	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Birthday book 8 out of 10; Art theme, 2022.  A cleverly put together short story of Magritte, the painter, with beautiful illustrations. I enjoyed it very much even though I don't usually read comics. I loved the colours, scenes, and the plot.
3026	Magritte:_This_is_Not_a_Biography	Not enough content for an adult, too sexually graphic for a child. 
3027	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Excellent GN about Satchel Paige and all the adversity he had to overcome - wonder what his stats would have been if he had been allowed to play MLB when he was younger. So many players had to deal with racist policies that did not let them reach their true potential - a lesson that needs to be remembered.
3028	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Our unnamed hero decides in 1929 to support his family by becoming a professional baseball player. It might have worked out too had he not played early on against the great Satchel Paige and busted his knee. Now he works as a sharecropper in the deep South and times are hard. His son is beaten by the white landowners for going to school rather than working their fields and there’s little to be done about it. Then, one day, Satchel Paige is advertised as coming to play the local white baseball team and everyone turns out. At first Paige doesn’t show and the game grows tense. Yet by the end of the day Paige’s eventual presence causes an outpouring of support from all sides and colors. In the midst of all this, the narrator decides to finally tell his son about his baseball days and remind his child that he still has options.  The idea of placing Paige within the context of his times by narrating through someone else is inspired and probably why the book works as well as it does. The fictional sharecropper who tells his own story first and how Paige intersected with it second, is a great character because you can feel the reality of his situation. The danger of writing any book for children that discusses Jim Crow is that your author is going to dumb down the material. Make light of the horror of the time, even. Sturm is very clever in this respect. He drills home both the constant threat of violence present at the time alongside the beating down of the spirit. When the sharecropper’s son goes to school instead of helping in the fields a horrific segment brings these horrors together. As for illustrator Rich Tommaso, he doesn’t have to show any more that the simplest of images to complement these moments. You might hear about a “cotton sack tied around his head. Blood leakin’ through the sack,” but the next panels are just of the boy’s mother boiling water quietly and carefully. Against this backdrop, Paige’s appearance is as welcome to the characters as it is the readers. And a book that can elicit a direct connection between character and reader has done its job and done it well.  It’s clear that ample research was done on this book, particularly when you consider the authenticity of the narrator’s life. The back of the book is filled too with “Panel Discussions” which lift select images from the book's panels and give a little historical background to things like the African American press, barnstorming, and lynching, to name but a few. The rest of the book just feels right. Not like a current author trying to shoehorn himself into a historical record, but like the words were tripping out of the narrator’s mouth directly into your ear. With its misleadingly simple images and deep vein of authenticity, “Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow” comes across as a biography of necessity. It’s not a replacement for those other bios with their focus centered squarely on the hero in question, but rather as a perfect complement. Anyone can learn a fact or two about Satchel Paige. How much rarer it is to feel firsthand why it is that people considered his existence extraordinary. Beautiful, harsh, and real.
3029	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	 Many thanks to for sending me a copy in exchange for an honest review  I enjoyed this graphic novel. I must admit the illustrations weren't my favorite. Some art styles just aren't for me. I did enjoy the way the information and history was conveyed. Satchel Paige is a very inspirational historical figure and it was fun to learn even more about him.  | Goodreads | Blog | Pinterest | LinkedIn | YouTube | Instagram
3030	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I grabbed this book from the public library thinking it would be a high-interest read that I could share with my students. Since “42”, a movie about Jackie Robinson, is so popular now I thought this would be a great connection to something they were familiar with. The introduction set the stage for the story of an elite baseball player who’d face hardships along the way to the top. Yet, on page one you immediately find out that the story is told from the perspective of another young man leaving home to play in the Negro League. After an encounter with Satchel Paige and an abrupt career-ending injury, the narrator transitions the story to a little town in Alabama where he recounts the plight of Southern sharecroppers in the 1930’s and 1940’s. I felt the storyline was of a serious and informative topic, but I also felt mislead. Paige is mentioned again only once briefly until his cameo at the end of the story. There he displays his skill and dramatic flair or playfulness while on the field to the chagrin of his competitors. To my amusement he humiliates the local white team including twin brothers who own most of the land in Tuckwilla, and who’d beat the narrators son earlier in the story. The narrator and his son savor the victory, but the story seems soured to me because of references from the Introduction, story, and Panel Discussions make Paige out to be more of an entrepreneur than a sports hero or civil rights activist. Although many such players traveled to play as many games as possible for the money, Paige often showed up late or missed games if he could make more money somewhere else. My biggest complaint is that there are so few references about Satchel Paige as a person. Throughout the story he is only described by his appearance, mannerisms, and talents as an athlete and entertainer. The subject matter of the story was acceptable, but the storyline and the language seemed forced. I was neither engrossed or entertained by this graphic novel, merely informed.
3031	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Great to learn about an important figure in early baseball even though I'm not a baseball person. It would have been something to see Satchel pitch.
3032	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I really love the use of the graphic novel-medium in the telling of these sorts of tales. Historical footnotes that are far more than just a footnote, now told in both an entertaining and educational way. Brilliant. 
3033	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige, Striking Out Jim Crow is a book about a man named Emmet and another man named Satchel Paige. Emmet was a young baseball player and he was earning lots of money playing the sport. Satchel Paige was known as the best pitcher in the Negro League and he had a killer fastball. Emmet goes up against Paige and hits a home run! In the process, he hurts his knee and is out of commission. The story then cuts to many years later when Emmet’s son is older. They live on land that is overseen by the Jennings family. The father and the two sons, who are twins, are very mean and patronize Emmet’s family. The twins are on the towns baseball team and they pay to get Satchel Paige and his team to come and play. Emmet always tried to forget the past but his son begs him to go. Emmet ends up taking his son to the baseball game. The teams are ready to play and Satchel has not arrived yet. They go on to play the game and the twins team is winning. Finally, toward the end of the game, Satchel arrives. He goes on to strike out many players and wins the game for his team. It was so exciting that Emmet reveals to his son that he once played baseball too.  I think that Satchel Paige, Striking Out Jim Crow is a good read. It shows that even with a baseball player being so good, they will still be discriminated against because of their skin color. I like the idea of following the story of the man Emmet while also following Satchel Paige. I think it was interesting that it showed how African American people were discriminated in that time while also following the baseball. I really enjoyed how the book had multiple layers that fit together so well. Overall, the book was very good and I would recommend it to anyone who wants a good quick read.
3034	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I read this with my little one. It was a very good story but at times so sad. The story starts off with a man who is very good at baseball. He is alive around the same time Satchel Paige, a legend at the game of baseball. Unfortunately, this man suffers an injury, while playing Satchel Paige. He no longer is able to play baseball, thus goes back to trying to make a life for himself and his family in the segregated south. During this time Satchel Paige continues to play baseball while also dealing with racism in America. This is a great book for kids to really understand a specific time in history. The illustrations are not that great but the book was still enjoyable. 
3035	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"I'm fascinated by Satchel Paige, and I had high hopes for this. It was good, but not as good as it could have been. The framing device is a fictional farmer who had a brief career in Negro League baseball before an injury in a game against Satchel ended his career. As much as Satchel features in this book, it barely feels like a book about Satchel. It's more about the unpleasantness of Jim Crow and segregation, as experienced by the fictional farmer. The story of the injustices faced by this farmer are ""solved"" in a happy ending that feels extremely tacked on, and somewhat dishonest.  I realize that the target audience for this book is children, but I don't think this book properly serves either of it's subjects to them. It could either be about Satchel's life (which it really is not), or it could be a comic about the injustices of segregation. The attempt to do both in less than 100 pages does not succeed.  On the evils of Jim Crow and segregation, the book describes some of the problems, but tries too hard to create a forced victory to end on.  On Satchel, well, the book barely touches on his life, his pitching ability, or his sense of humor, you get the sense that he was important, and skilled, but it's hard to believe that someone encountering Paige for the first time in this book would feel any particular admiration or interest in the man.  Tommaso's artwork is great though, and the main reason I didn't give this book one star."
3036	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige: Striking out Jim Crow by James Sturm, illustrated by Rich Tommaso, 90 pages. GRAPHIC NOVEL / NON-FICTION Jump at the Sun (Disney), 2007. $18.  Content: Language: PG (‘n’ word); Mature Content: G; Violence: PG-13.  BUYING ADVISORY: MS, HS – OPTIONAL  AUDIENCE APPEAL: LOW  Through the eyes of another black baseball player who is retired, Satchel Paige’s popularity is portrayed. While telling a couple of stories about baseball games in which Paige made a big impression, the prejudice of the deep south is also shown through the actions of two white landowners against a sharecropper. Paige was a fast and impressive pitcher who liked to take his time on the mound and made a lot of money playing the game. At a time (the 1920’s) when there was a Negro league, Paige drew a lot of attention and played for many different teams.  I wanted to love this book and my son who loves baseball was interested by the front cover, but the story line is hard to follow, and the illustrations have no color which makes the story even more confusing. There are a couple of pages at the back that give more historical background of the time period and the racial situation during Paige’s lifetime, but as far as biography on Satchel Paige, this isn’t very informative. There is a picture of a lynching and the use of the ‘n’ word.  Reviewer, C. Peterson https://kissthebook.blogspot.com/2019...
3037	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige: Striking out Jim Crow is an excellent book about the struggle of African-Americans in the South and an excellent book about baseball. It tells the story of Emmett Wilson and his triumph and struggle through the Negro Leagues and back home in Tuckwilla, Alabama. The arc of the story revolves around the late, great Satchel Paige. Emmett's career in baseball ends abruptly and he and his family must suffer under the control of the Jennings family and their use of the Jim Crow laws. Luckily, Emmett and his son get to witness the extraordinary revenge of Mr. Paige.  This book is a graphic novel that relates a very serious era in history. Mr. James Sturm and Mr. Rich Tommaso are very blunt in their portrayal of the time period. Lynchings and abuse are straightforwardly presented as a reality of the time and location. I think this would be a great way to discuss the realities of life in the South under Jim Crow for African-Americans with 6th to 8th graders. This book does have a great, easy baseball spin on it. However, it is holds no punches in its use of racist language and the brutality that came with it. Young people will pick up a graphic novel on baseball. That is true. But they need to watch out for the curve...
3038	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige: Striking out Jim crow is a very historic giving details on how baseball player Satchel Paige had to deal with Jim crow laws. Also in the book there is a black man and his son dealing with racism. Some of the main ideas that the author is trying to get through are how African Americans had to deal with the Jim crow laws (together but separated). In the book the 3 black characters were miss treated and call racial slurs all by white people and this tells us the reader a lot about what happened back then. I think this book told me a lot about these laws that happened way back. The story may have had a big baseball game going on but its not really the story. You would have to look deep with in the words to understand the real story. I think the author did meet his purpose by informing the reader. The authors writing was very powerful and beautiful, because it showed a lot about these laws and what happened with them and what African Americans had to deal with. I really agree with the authors closing statements and how he ended it. This book was a very good read and it left a strong impression on me and I recommended it to anyone who loves black history of black cultural.
3039	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	James Sturm & Rich Tommaso’s graphic novel Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow is the amazing story about one man’s influence on the course of civil rights in American history, through his athletic abilities and influence. Told through the eyes of an African-American man relating his personal witness to how Satchel defied the Jim Crow laws of their day, this is a history lesson, a morality tale, and a legendary athletic story all rolled into one. Sturm provides a complex portrait of Paige, as one who was as defined for his skills as he was for his refusal to be defined by his race. This is most definitely a book for anyone interested in the history of the Jim Crow South, as it provides an in-depth look at the society of that time. This graphic novel is also a must for anyone at all interested in the game of baseball. The play-by-play blows of the game – so electrifying and suspenseful – made me feel witness to the excitement of the game as it was once played. This does contain graphic depictions of the brutal and violent acts common towards African-Americans at the time (e.g. lynching). (Ages 10-14) 
3040	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Wow. This one was a gut punch and nothing like I expected. I was annoyed by it at first because I was expecting a biography. Which it isn't. Once I got out of my own way, though, it was a powerful little book about life in Paige's time that drove home the reality of Jim Crow America through the lens of baseball and left me to confront for the first time what risks black athletes took in this era. Paige as a character is fantastic and the narrator feels very real. Great book. Powerful. I would recommend it for kids old enough to understand...the lynching pictured is a powerful image.
3041	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Short, but expressive. A great springboard for exploring the history of segregation, racism and baseball. I didn't love the art style, but three-toned coloring and the panels conveyed the mood of the story/issues, as well as the excitement of a baseball game, well.
3042	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Strong and enthralling. A unique angle on Civil Rights. 
3043	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This book is well written but it's not the Satchel Paige biography that I was expecting. Instead it's about racism in the Jim Crow South.  This narrative story is told by a fictional ballplayer named Emmett. In 1929 Emmett once played against Satchel Paige. During that game Emmett sustained an injury that ended his baseball career. He then went back to sharecropping and raising a family. Fast forward to 1944 and Emmett takes his son to see Satchel and his black baseball team take on the local white team. The blacks are being severely beaten, both morally and in terms of the score. When Satchel takes the mound, he's taunted with a racial slur. Despite this, he proceeds to strike out the best white players.  I think this book is trying to be multiple things and is failing to deliver on any of them. While it mentions Paige several times we fail to get a sense of who the man really was. Likewise the concept of racism, particularly in the South, is presented but I don't think it was explained very much. (I read the book a month ago so my memory might be faulty.) The title would have us believe that Satchel wiped out Jim Crow as easily as he struck out those white ball players.
3044	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This book is everything I love about baseball and everything I hate about segregation. Although it's called Satchel Paige the narrator is Emmett Wilson, also a former Negro Leagues player. Through his eyes we live the tough days of an Alabama sharecropper whose life intersects with Paige in two well-drawn scenes. I loved Paige's antics and the thrilling plays of his teammates. This book helped me see how Satchel Paige and the Negro Leagues really did strike back at the segregated south in the 1920s and 30s. 
3045	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I love anything about Satchel Paige!!! This was no exception. If I would change anything, I would have drawn more from all of the known stories about Paige (although the author’s choice of a frame story was also great).
3046	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	GOOD GRAPHIC NOVEL.... WANTED to learn more about the hardships of this era. It is well told.
3047	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I’m not sure if I would say this graphic novel is about Satchel Paige. I think it is more of a informational story about the time period.
3048	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"After several books that didn't live up to my expectations, Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow was a truly lovely return to form. Written by graphic novelist James Sturm (who knows a thing or two about old-time baseball, based on his acclaimed The Golem's Mighty Swing) and beautifully illustrated by Rich Tommaso, Satchel Paige tells a partially familiar story in an entirely new format.  First off, it bears mentioning that Satchel Paige isn't a biography of the famed baseball star. Rather, the book is the story of a fictional African-American former Negro Leagues ballplayer who once scored a run off of Satchel Paige, injured himself in the process, and now lives, works, and raises his son in Jim Crow Alabama in the shadow of his achievement. By turns heartbreaking and entertaining, the graphic novel details the daily injustices perpetrated by white enforcers of Jim Crow against the African-Americans who lived among them, but also the real triumph that Paige could engender because his fame and skill transcended race, even as Paige combated its indignities as well. Technically, Satchel Paige is a young-adult graphic novel, but, true to Sturm's usual form and the typical fare of the Center for Cartoon Studies' works, the book is easily accessible to readers of all ages, provides new information and context for adult readers as well as young-adult, and even has a bibliography for further reading, that includes works on Jim Crow in context, as well as Paige's own autobiography, Maybe I'll Pitch Forever.  Part of the charm of Satchel Paige is that it offers hope.  Paige's inspiring performance at the climax of the book—in which he very pointedly and visibly gains the upper hand over the wealthy landowner who called him a ""washed-up n----r"" (in a panel taking up the entirety of its page, no less)—provides closure for the protagonist who once competed against him, as well as hope for his son, insofar as he has witnessed a black man with the courage and social standing to stand up to Jim Crow racism and has been inspired to move into more than that himself; particularly given that baseball very much offered African-Americans a prime way out of Jim Crow during the first half of the twentieth century, the significance was not lost on me. There is something (very) slightly discomfiting about white writers and artists telling a story of racism against African-Americans, but there are no ""white saviors"" here; indeed, the protagonist and his son save themselves, with Satchel Paige as the motivator therefor. Ultimately, Satchel Paige is a masterful triumph, both in format and in thematic material. "
3049	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	 SUMMARY: This book weaves together biography and fiction, with the real part concerning Satchel Paige, a famous African-American baseball player during the 1920s through the 1940s. The point of view is told from a man named Emmet, who comprises the fictional aspect of the story. Emmet was a promising minor-league player himself, who scored a run on a steal versus Paige in 1929. While sliding into home base, his knee sustained a serious injury, and that was his last baseball game. The book focuses on Emmet, though Emmet keeps tabs on Satchel, and eventually Satchel's team comes to Emmet's town in Tuckwilla, Alabama to face off against the best players from town.  EVALUATION: I found this book interesting and intriguing, in tone and writing. The artwork is colored with sepia tones, an interesting and unusual choice for this medium. That is one of the bonuses of graphic novels--there are so many different styles and ways to represent the art, and most of them work very well.  WHY I WOULD INCLUDE IT: I would not normally enjoy reading a story about baseball, or many other sports. This sort of thing would normally bore me, only written in prose. Yet something magical happens when the words are combined with the pictures and then I am able to focus on what's really important: the segregation issues and how Emmet's family coped. I even became interested in the baseball part of the novel, and if this book could affect me in this way, it will affect others. This is a part of history that we should not forget, in order to prevent it from ever happening again, and the tweens of today should be educated on it. Tweens are more likely to want to read books with serious subject matter if they are presented in a graphic novel format, and this book fits the bill perfectly.  
3050	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"I'm old. I'm so old I remember Paige...even near the end of his life, he was promoting, playing HIS game, HIS way.  That wasn't always the case...and I'm grateful for this graphic novel.  The narration is interesting...Paige is a character in another baseball player's story...A young man, Emmitt Wilson, who's chasing the same dream...Negro Leagues. Money to send home. An opportunity to show off his talents. Emmitt's career comes to a horrible halt when he tries to steal home...and Paige, who was pitching, gives Emmitt the baseball he hit as a souvenir of his playing days.  But Emmitt, when he returns to his sharecropper cabin and his family, with only memories of baseball, carrying the full weight of Jim Crow, remembers the dignity of Paige, and holds onto that.  An exhibition game pits Paige against the owners of the plantation, the town, the bank. Emmitt takes his son to watch...hoping Paige can shine.  The book shows Satchel in all his glory and self-promotion. He was a show man. He knew his example of independence and confidence was important for fans. He gives hope as he fires that fastball. He understands his role...and he plays it to the hilt.  I've always wondered, ""What if..."" What if Paige in his prime had been 'allowed' to play in the Big League? Would current pitchers still be chasing his records?  He was a symbol of pride and accomplishment and talent. And he did it all his way. During Jim Crow."
3051	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow by James Sturm is a story of a sports hero, role model, consummate showman, and era-defining American.  Leroy ""Satchel"" Paige changed the face of baseball in a career that spanned five decades. A tall, lanky fireballer, he was arguably the Negro League's hardest thrower, most entertaining storyteller, and greatest gate attraction.  This story is not a traditional biography as it is told from the point of view of a sharecropper, and I think that is what I enjoyed this most about this book — the storytelling.  We follow Emmet Wilson Jr.’s journey as he goes from being a rookie in the Negro Leagues, batting against Paige himself, to being a laborer for wealthy, white landowners. Then Satchel and his team come to town, and Emmet gets to see his old rival strike out the very same men he works for.  I think the way the story is told allows for a more complex look at the racism and prejudice experienced during that time. We see the segregated public spaces and baseball teams, we see how the wealthy, whites mistreated their employees, and so much more.  It also interested me how quickly a baseball career can end due to an injury. I’m very thankful we’ve come a long way in that department, and hopefully we will see an end to racism as well."
3052	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"""If the river washed away all my pain and anger, there would be nothing left."" Written by James Sturm, ""Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow"" was first published in 2007, a non-fiction graphic novel that follows the life of a former baseball player-turned farmer. As a negro farmer in the early-mid 1900's, the story sees him struggle with racism and abuse, as he struggles to protect his family and teach his son to be strong. This story is a moving, deep and meaningful page-turner that tells the story of decades ago that is still relevant today. The author tries to teach the reader about racism then, reflecting racism now. The story's target audience is children, portrayed in a reader-friendly comic-book set-up, the main character a former baseball player, a popular sport among children. The story is exciting while still meaningful, making the audience aware of racism around them. A fast-paced book, with interesting and realistic characters that drives the lesson of the real-world straight home. "
3053	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"The head wrangler and top writer/sometimes artist for The Center of Cartoon Studies, James Sturm, got on the mound for this title with Rich Tommaso sketching the game.  It was all done magnificently- ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________  The only fault I find is in the cover: it presents the story well enough but Satchel never pitched from the stretch!  I finally scratched the itch: I'd kept this gem at the top of my ""to-read"" shelves since the day I bought it so I could always see that name when I reached for a book to read.  LEROY ""SATCHEL"" PAIGE: My favorite and the greatest sports figure there ever was. If it takes a fistfight to defend my point I'll throw down bare knuckles.  I grew up on baseball and knew he was a real life legend in my youth but I didn't read anything that I wasn't assigned in school. It wasn't until the dawn of this century that I internet-binged on the nuance of the man and his game and to this day I've never grown bored of a session of Satchel."
3054	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	“How it came to be that these men lorded over us. How do men so small get so large? Who made it so?””You live under their rulin’ for so long that you soon forget who you are, what you can be.”While the story is technically about Leroy “Satchel,” Paige, the real story is actually about Emmett Wilson, and how he deals with losing what he felt made him a man. And having to “humble himself” in front of the gaze, arrogance, and racism of the white men of the day. All of which is juxtaposed with Paige, who just does not care about any of that. He defies it all. He doesn’t care about their time schedule. He doesn’t care about the custom of not talking back to a white person. He doesn’t care about humbling himself before them.He just cares about putting on a show, striking out batters, and making money — probably in reverse order. While this is a short graphic novel, it packs a wallop. Well-worth digging into, even if you’re not a baseball fan; you don’t have to be to get it, and appreciate it.
3055	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Less a biography of Satchel Paige and more a glimpse of black life in the Jim Crow South, Satchel Paige is an intelligent, powerful read that kept me riveted to the page despite my general disinterest in baseball. The story follows a young Negro league player who leaves his Alabama hometown to compete against Satchel Paige. Long after an injury derailed his baseball dreams, that same player encounters Paige at a barnstorming game back home. In between these events lie the sharp, small dramas of everyday life in the Jim Crow South.  The story is by turns touching, unsettling, and fascinating. Rich Tommaso's art is pure and simple, exactly right for this type of tale. I especially appreciated the introduction (an actual biography of Paige) and the endnotes (historical footnotes about black life in the early 20th century). Satchel Paige contains a solidly told story and some welcome learning materials - easily an improvement on the plain, simple biography I expected to read.
3056	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Great stuff!  This graphic novel, relased by the Center for Cartoon Studies and written by James Sturm and Rich Tommaso, considers the persona of Satchel Paige from the perspective of an unnamed, black, ex-ballplayer living in the Jim-Crow South. The story mixes baseball with history, allowing for moments of competitive excitement while mostly relating the terribleness of the institutionalized subjugation that Jim Crow represented.  And, really, the execution is superb--the story flows excellently, and the illustrations enhance each moment of narrative. The novel is both informative and touching.  Furthermore, I think that the book is certainly worthy of study in secondary schools. And while the book's narrative-process (both story and illustrations) would lend themselves well to any English classroom, I think that the book would fit most appropriately in any social studies or history classroom as a means to engage topics of racism and Jim Crow.
3057	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	The graphic novel Satchel Paige is about a black man playing baseball in the times of racial inequality. But the catch is it’s about how he blew his knee out. and him and his son go to a baseball game to see a black pitcher. Another thing this book is about is that how a black baseball team plays a white baseball player. The white baseball team is doing good until Satchel Paige gets to the mound and he strikes everyone out. One player on the white team uses language you should never use.  In my opinion this book is not the best book in the world but it’s not the worst either. I like sports, but I would rather read a book about modern day sports. So, if you're into history of sports then this is the book for you to read. Also, if you like to read about racial equality then you will like this book a lot. Also this whole book is about black people playing sports professionally. 
3058	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Fascinating. . This isn’t a new book with its publication date in 2007, but it’s new to me. I know many readers, both boys and girls alike, who would love this thoughtfully told tale of Satchel Paige, the Negro League and Jim Crow laws. With an unflinching look at history, readers will come away with a deep respect for those who were forced to suffer in silence for fear of harm coming to a loved one. . Fair warning, there is a panel depicting a lynching and the “n” word is used once (though placed in historical context). I’d recommend this masterfully illustrated, nearly monochromatic biographical graphic novel (say THAT 3 times, fast!) from mature middle grade readers on up. The panel discussions that follow the powerful tale of an extraordinary man hold nearly as much treasure as the story itself. I’m delighted to see that this organization has put out additional graphic novels about equally fascinating people in history. I highly recommend Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow!
3059	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Text: 4 stars Art: 4 stars  This is not a biography of Satchel Paige. This teen graphic novel focuses on the Jim Crow laws of the racially divided South in the 1930s & 1940s, and their effect on sharecroppers. There is a lot of baseball infused into this book, and a little bit of Satchel Paige. But the protagonist is an obscure Negro League baseball player named Emmet Wilson. Satchel paige makes two brief appearances in the story, one at the beginning and the other at the end.  The art is very good and the panels flow well. The black, white, and khaki green color palette is a good choice for the subject matter. Some historical notes and a bibliography are included in the back of the book. This is one of the graphic novels put out by the Center for Cartoon Studies, in their high-quality biography series.  Some violence. Suitable for high school and upper middle school students. 
3060	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Sturm does a great job capturing how inspiring Paige - with his talent and theatrics - must've been to struggling blacks in the South. The book is told from the vantage point of a sharecropper who played ball, but blows out his knee in a game against Paige as a young man. Twelve years later, angry after the loss of his dreams and the predations of the owners of his farm, the man is convinced to take his son to see Paige's barnstorming All-Stars play against a local team, including the owners of his farm. Sturm and Tommaso capture the cadence of the ballgame, with moments like a ball captured in mid-air, full of potential to go either way.  Beyond the inspiring quality that they give Paige, as a baseball fan, I was entranced by how well they depicted most of the game. A very engaging and uplifting book.
3061	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige summary In this book the whole book is about how a black man playing baseball. But the catch is it’s about how he blew his knee out and him and his son go to a baseball game to see a black pitcher. Another thing this book is about is that how a black baseball team plays a white baseball player. The white baseball team is doing good until Satchel Paige gets to the mound and he strikes everyone out. One player on the white team uses language you should never use.  In my opinion this book is not the best book in the world but it’s not the worst either. I like sports in all but i would rather read a book about modern day sports so if you're into older sports or sports that happened a long time ago then this is the book for you to read. Also if you like to read about racial equality then you will like this book a lot.
3062	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	despite the title, this book is only sort-of about Satchel Paige. mostly it focuses on Emmet from Tuckwilla, AL, a ballplayer whose career is cut short in the first chapter. it's about Jim Crow, sharecropping, the Negro Leagues and, yes, Satchel Paige. it's a unique introduction to segregation, using the game of baseball to illustrate some hard truths. definitely good for readers both young and old. 
3063	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This is a great graphic novel. The progression of the story is paced so that one gets an adequate feel for what it was like for African Americans during that time. The art, color and sparse details, seems appropriate for that particular era of our country's history.
3064	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Not as much info about Paige as you'd expect, since this appears to be a biography of him.
3065	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige played baseball from the 1920s to the 1960s. His fame came from two skills: his amazing abilities as a pitcher and his theatrical style of playing the game. His career started before professional baseball was integrated. He played in the Negro leagues, though he often switched teams and played lots of exhibition games. Those exhibition games included playing against white teams. Paige even had his own all-star team that crisscrossed the country. He was immensely popular and made lots of money even before he started playing for the Cleveland Indians in 1948 (Jackie Robinson started playing for the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947). His pitching style was flamboyant and effective. The crowds loved him; the batters feared him. He lived a life that contributed to breaking down race barriers in America.  This book is a bit of bait-and-switch. The main character in the book is Emmet Wilson, an African American player who played in the Negro leagues and was injured in a game against Paige. His injury put him out of baseball permanently, which forced him to go back to the sharecropping life his family led before baseball. Even minor players in secondary leagues made a lot more money than someone working the fields in the agrarian South. His experience as a share-cropper was pretty horrible. His son was in and out of school because pay for the school teacher was on-again, off-again. The local government didn't see the value in educating those people. The specter of lynchings and other abuses haunted Emmet and his family. He never wanted to talk about baseball, even though Paige was the talk of the South. He found little consolation in anything, not even church. Then Satchel Paige's team came to town to play against the locals, including the landowners for whom Emmet worked. Emmet reluctantly went to the game because his son wanted to see his baseball idol so much. The game was close-fought, though Paige didn't show up until the eighth inning (probably other playing commitments). Even so, he wowed the crowd and inspired father and son to dream for and work towards a better future by being better men.  The story is unexpected with the focus on Emmet but that works to the storytellers' advantage. Seeing the extreme poverty and suffering through Emmet's eyes is revelatory and moving. The book still has plenty of baseball stories and gives a good idea of Paige's personality. The book includes notes at the end and a bibliography for further reading about Paige and the segregated South.  Highly recommended, though be warned it is not a biography of Satchel Paige.
3066	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow is written in first person present, but surprisingly is not narrated by Satchel Page himself. And while that was confusing to me in the beginning, I quickly saw how well having Emmet Wilson tell both his and Satchel Paige's stories side-by-side worked. Yes, this book is about Satchel Page, but it's also about the America Satchel Page lived in. And to really understand that America, we need to read this book from the perspective of a ""typical"" Black sharecropper (Emmet Wilson) in 1930s-40s Tuckwilla, Alabama.  And by typical, I mean the pages of Emmet being harrassed by the landowners -the Jennings Twins- will make your skin crawl with righteous indignation. Worse was the fear you'll swallow when the Jennings Twins beat and trussed up little Emmet Jr. for having the audacity to go to school instead of work in their fields.  Emmet: There was plenty of anger in me but I hold my tongue. What else was I to do? Cry about my rights? Tell them I am bein' mistreated? You do that, and you die no different than Lucas Crutchfield. (Picture of a lynching) Pg. 37  The helpless anger. The frustration. This book portrays it all with natural ease and meaning.  (There's a river baptism scene) Emmet: Each and every Sunday, the congregation walks down to the river. Each and every week, Pastor Wills shouts out, ""Who will be cleansed by Jesus? Who will let Jesus wash away their troubles? Who will let Jesus wash away their pain and anger?"" Each and every week I stay put. If the river washed away all my pain and anger, there would be nothing left. Pg. 45   And then. And then, Satchel Paige & his All-Stars come to Tuckwilla, AL to play against the white team. Emmit & Emmit Jr. turn out to watch (along with the whole town). His presence is powerful. And it reminds Emmit of who he is and who he was. He tells his son about his own past, and the short-lived baseball career he had & about the game against Satchel Paige where he first injured his knee.  I really enjoyed this book (even though I'm not the biggest baseball or sports history fan). And I really recommend it for more mature readers.  *Warning this book does cover heavy themes like racism (the N-word) & lynching. There is a picture of a lynched man on Page. 37. I suggest parents read this together with their age-appropriate children. There is a section in the back with more historical info to read and discuss. "
3067	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow is a semi-biographical graphic novel written by James Sturm and illustrated by Rich Tommaso. It is a bleak tale of failed baseball dreams, smoldering pride and Jim Crow in action.  Leroy Robert ""Satchel"" Paige was an American Negro league baseball and Major League Baseball pitcher who is notable for his longevity in the game, and for attracting record crowds wherever he pitched. Paige was a right-handed pitcher, and at age 42 in 1948, was the oldest major league rookie while playing for the Cleveland Indians. He played with the St. Louis Browns until age 47, and represented them in the All-Star Game in 1952 and 1953.  Delivering far more than a conventional biography or baseball book, this graphic novel reveals the sport as an agent of hope in the Jim Crow South. It is about a fictional African-American sharecropper who turns to Negro League baseball to support his family. The narrator hits a pitch off of Satchel Paige, but his career is cut short by injury and he returns to sharecropping. The story culminates with Paige's team coming to play against the all-white hometown favorites: the final score is less important than the chance to see Paige make quick work of the opposing batters.  Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow is written and constructed rather well. The narrative and duo-tone art are largely understated, with stark exceptions: among them, a lynching victim hanging from a tree and an epithet, directed at Paige, which roars across the infield. By emphasizing Paige's influence and mythos rather than focusing on details about his life or career, it offers a powerful and unique testimony to his legacy.  All in all, Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow gives a unique perspective of not only the life of Satchel Paige, but his inspiration to a community that suffered under the Jim Crow laws."
3068	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Continuing on my journey into biographical comics for younger readers. This one crossed my desk and I couldn't resist! Satchel Paige is at once a baseball superstar and an enigma. He apparently pitched professionally into his 60s, though nobody knows, because he never disclosed (or possibly never knew) his true age. This graphic biography is actually narrated by a Black man from Alabama who managed to figure out Paige in his one and only at-bat against him. The story is largely about that narrator, Emmet, who is at the mercy of Jim Crow and his white employers, landowners who have no interest in improving the conditions of their Black employees and neighbours. When Satchel Paige's Negro All-Star team comes to their town to play against those white twins, who had a brief career in baseball, Emmet finds himself reliving his past, and examining the man he has become. Every story about the inequality faced by African Americans during Jim Crow wrenches my heart, and this one is no different. The illustrations are stark but rich, not unlike the southern culture they portray. There are disturbing elements here, but it is a story every child should know.
3069	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige: Striking out Jim Crow by James Sturm and Rich Tommaso is a beautifully crafted text encompassing biographical information with historical fiction. It tells both the story of Leroy “Satchel” Paige, a Black phenom pitcher during the Jim Crow era, and of the fictional Emmet, another young, Black baseball player. The two men have vastly different experiences in their baseball careers and subsequently, their lives. Emmet narrates the tale, and it is a mix of the lightness Paige brought to his long pitching career in the the Negro Leagues and then in the Major Leagues, and the sadness that surrounded African American families struggling under oppression and discriminatory laws in the early half of the twentieth century. This book is illustrated with simple, but beautiful graphics and is highly engaging with stories of great baseball moments and difficult personal struggles, interspersed with biographical details of Satchel Paige’s life. It would be an excellent text to use in middle school or high school to critically examine the lives of African Americans in America after slavery, and the reverberating effects of those laws and practices that still live on today. 
3070	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Honestly this book was underwhelming. I give it four stars because if you are looking for a graphic novel with an at least partially true plot, it is a good read. That said, if you are looking for a book gives you a new perspective, this book is not the right one. To begin with, the title is misleading, as is the introduction. I expected this book to delve in the history of African American baseball leagues, and the societal effects of those leagues. Instead, it tells the story of failed baseball player who briefly interacts with the stars of the league. The concept of striking out Jim Crow, from which the title is derived, is not deeply discussed. The most useful information in the book actually comes from the glossary in the back, and the introduction at the beginning.  The part I did appreciate about the book was the concept that it portrayed of sports being a great equalizer. However, even this mostly came through just in the last few pages. All in all, the book was an interesting read, but it didn't explore what I had hoped it would.
3071	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"I was hoping for more about the life of Satchel Paige, the greatest baseball player and greatest showman of all time. The story is actually told from the perspective of another man and covers several times he played with or watched Paige.  The story also includes some examples from the main character's life showing how degrading sharecropping was and how black people were always one step away from lynching. I thought the authors did a great job getting the reality across without making the story too much for most kids. I would advise parents and educators to go through it first, though, to be aware of what to expect and how to approach for various ages and sensitivity levels of kids.  Parents and educators also need to be prepared to explain numerous baseball terms, like what it means for a batter to ""lay one down"" or what a ""delayed double steal"" or ""suicide squeeze"" are. In addition to more basic baseball terms that people don't all seem to know anymore, like ""windup"" and ""single"" and ""base stealing."""
3072	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	The parts about pure Baseball were so boring... Sorry, I don't play baseball and all I know about it comes from the Japanese anime I used to watch as a kid. I chose this book because I wanted to see how the series The Center for Cartoon Studies Presents was like. Jeez, I didn't even know the expression Jim Crow laws.  I learned a lot about American history thanks to this graphic novel. I really did. At the same time baseball plays such a prominent role that I was ready to give up altogether. I mean, why do they have to describe every little actions before Paige gets to the match against Tuckwilla?  At first it was also a bit difficult to understand who was telling the story. Only after the accident I realized who was talking. That was confusing. I like the relationship between father and son, though.  I gave it two stars because it's a good graphic novel for learning something but the story is really boring sometimes.
3073	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Baseball Hall of Famer Leroy ""Satchel"" Paige (1905? 1982) changed the face of the game in a career that spanned five decades. Much has been written about this larger-than-life pitcher, but when it comes to Paige, fact does not easily separate from fiction. He made a point of writing his own historyand then re-writing it. A tall, lanky fireballer, he was arguably the Negro League's hardest thrower, most entertaining storyteller and greatest gate attraction. Now the Center for Cartoon Studies turns a graphic novelist's eye to Paige's story. Told from the point of view of a sharecropper, this compelling narrative follows Paige from game to game as he travels throughout the segregated South.  In stark prose and powerful graphics, author and artist share the story of a sports hero, role model, consummate showman, and era-defining American."
3074	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	An African American sharecropper scores a run on African American Satchel Paige, star pitcher of the Negro Leagues in the 1920s-30s. Scoring that run causes our main character's knee to give out, leading to him returning to a life of farming and barely scraping by. Satchel Paige returns to our main character's hometown to compete against the local white league, bringing much of the town's racism to the forefront.  For a book titled Satchel Paige, I didn't learn as much about him as I expected--at best, he is a side character in this story, even if his actions and presence hold a heavy impact. It's interesting to look at this now through the lens of the diverse, historical graphic novels and books written in the last decade. An interesting read, though I'm not sure who I would hand this to at the moment.
3075	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This was a good book out of The Center for Cartoon Studies in a similar style to others in the series and aimed at a similar audience. I think my three stars instead of four is solely based on the title. Satchel Paige plays a role in this story, sure, but the story really revolves around Emmet and Emmet Jr., who are both interesting and round characters. As far as I could tell, Emmet is a fictional character, or if he was a real person, his story uses some poetic license, so it doesn’t really fit with the episodic bios that are otherwise in this series. I’m interested in Paige and the baseball negro leagues, but this book was light on the facts and heavy on the pathos. Was it a good story? Yes. Was it as advertised? No.
3076	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Only at the surface is this about Satchel Paige. While Paige looms largely in this book, it's told from the perspective of a fictional black farmer who played against Paige once and had an opportunity to see Paige play again later in life. Ultimately the authors are more interested in highlighting the injustices of the Jim Crow era US. This would be fine but in the book it is only at the surface tied back to Satchel Paige and also often is presented in passing and not given the gravity required. Ultimately I wish that the authors would either focused on Paige or life under Jim Crow and provided a bit more substance either way.
3077	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I had heard the name, Satchel Paige, before but was not aware of his story. This graphic novel does a great job of telling a succinct story of his life and the challenges he faced. The reader learns about the challenges of being an African American during this time period, especially as it pertains to being in the Negro Leagues. I admire the courage it took for these men, especially Paige, to play baseball and how they persevered despite poor treatment. Additionally, I thought it was really interesting to learn that Paige continued to play baseball into his sixties.
3078	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I was super interested in Satchel Paige's story and love the idea of a graphic novel format. This book fell flat for me. The illustrations were not great-especially because I couldn't tell if the players were black or white-which is a big part of the storyline. The story isn't really focused on Satchel Paige and is from a bunch of different moments and players. I didn't appreciate the way it was written-I had to re-read often because of the improper sentence structures. I did like the play-by-play moments-my 3rd grade son loved that part.
3079	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	The story of a father who went head to head with Satchel Paige is an inspiring story. One of determination and how Paige proved he was in another league of his own. Despite being a Black man, Paige was able to show many white communities that he was as good or rather better than many White baseball players. His confident style and skill evoked excitement even among the White spectators and was a role model for many young Black youths. And this was a very powerful message since this was during the times of Jim Crow.
3080	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"rating: pg for language (*n word in historical context + a few more mild swear words), no sex, no violence, although for the time period, that is always in the back of the mind. 1 shadow-image of a lynched man. recommend: gn historical ""non"" -fiction (nf setting w/ nf and fictional characters) JH and up  this book does a good job of painting the time and the underlying current of upcoming civil rights unrest. I did not know about Satchel Paige - it was cool to learn a little bit about his long career as a pitcher in the Negro Leagues. I also appreciated that it ended on a hopeful note."
3081	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Fantastic -- I'd never heard of Satchel Paige before this book, but wow, what a great story, and what a wonderful depiction in this graphic novel. CW: it does contain the N-word, but not in a gratuitous way, the book as a whole is clear eyed portrayal of the racism and violence of Jim Crow and it makes Satchel (and the main character, a former (injured) Black baseball player) shine all the more. Fantastic introduction, and really great ""Panel Discussions"" at the end (basically, explanatory footnotes for the entire story.  Really great stuff."
3082	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	While I did still learn from this book, it was not structured the way I thought it would be. Satchel's story is told from the perspective of a former player from an opposing team. With that being said, the book was not only about Mr. Paige, but also about the difficulties African Americans had during the Jim Crow era. Like I said, it was a good read, but I did not walk away feeling like an expert on Satchel Paige.
3083	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Possibly the greatest pitcher of all time, Satchel Paige started out in the Negro Leagues in the 1920's and went on to play in the major leagues in the 1940's. He played years after most would have retired. The muted tones of the art here somehow add to the story. Paige is a legend and learning more about his history and the struggles of players during the Jim Crow era was informative. The introduction was written by local favorite Gerald Early. 
3084	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This shares a bit in common with “The Golem’s Mighty Swing,” another terrific GN by James Sturm. Both books are about minority traveling baseball teams. The story was effective and moving, but it was barely about Satchel Paige. I can see why this “bait and switch” was used because I don’t know that I would have picked the book up otherwise. It is a good primer of athletics in the Jim Crow south.
3085	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This is a wonderful book to teach children about the history of segregation in the US during the 1930s and 40s through the use of baseball. It delves into the life of a player in the Negro League during the 30s and what happens when he has to return home. His life outside of baseball for him and his family and what Sachel Paige did to fight the inequality and racism during that time. Wonderful book and and the illustrations were great as well.
3086	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	A recounting of Satchel Paige's career that does a good job hitting the major highlights and moves along at a brisk pace. Admittedly, the story comes off a little dry in its presentation, though perhaps it was Sturm trying not over-sensationalize any aspect of Paige's story. And while I generally really like Rich Tommaso's cartoonish style, I felt the artwork didn't quite complement the story all that well. A solid biographical comic for sure, but also not all that memorable of a read. 
3087	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Short graphic story on Satchel Paige, one of baseball’s greatest players and personalities. It is told against the backdrop of Jim Crow laws and the treatment of ordinary African American citizens.  Favorite Quote: “I thought about them Jennings twins, how it came to be that these men lorded over us, how do men so small get so large? Who made it so?”
3088	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I feel like the book made me feel like you were the one playing baseball . I really liked the art when Paige was tying his shoes for to long and the batter called time because he was thinking two can play that game.in the middle of the book it got emotional when they found the little boy in the crops tied up and bloody 
3089	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I got the most out of the front and back of this book. The graphic parts didn't really do it for me. I didn't enjoy the color scheme, and while it was interesting baseball and horrific racism, it wasnt a book about Satchel Paige. Our library has it in biography, probably should just be in sports nonfiction.
3090	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Graphic Novel - At a time when Jim Crow was unspoken rule of the south, Satchel Paige was a iconic hero to the african population. Breaking the color barrier, Paige became an amazing role model and leader for blacks in the south; his pitching skills were iconic, and revered. His phenomenal skills gave strength for his race in a time when people treated blacks horribly. 
3091	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I am not a fan of graphic novels. I could not finish this one. Between the green and white or grey and white colouring, it was difficult to look at. The story line felt disjointed and I was left unsure if this book was about Paige or Williams (who it began with). I stopped reading half way through, unengaged and confused as to the storyline.
3092	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This graphic novel is about the way that Satchel Paige fought back against racism, but it isn’t told from his perspective. It is told from the perspective of a man who used to play baseball and got injured. Then he came home to earn a living and had to face some extreme racism. So we get see how people felt about Satchel Paige as well as the true viciousness of Jim Crow racism. 
3093	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"A pleasant read, telling the tail of Leroy ""Satchel"" Paige, was a nice story, but I felt it lacked tension, or enough memorable details. Perhaps I need to read a more detailed book about Satchel Paige, and for that reason I am thankful for this toe dipping "
3094	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Only tangentially about Satchel Paige at all -- he's not the main character and it's really a lot more about Jim Crow and early baseball. Good content, but not what I was expecting, and it just felt like a bait and switch. 
3095	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Great educational graphic novel about Satchel Paige and the history of racism in baseball.  For older kids (maybe 13+) because of sensitive material, including a Black child being badly beaten by his father's white bosses.
3096	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This was short but very good. This is not a feel good story, as there is depictions of a lynching as well as the N word in here. Black baseball player experiences are important perspectives to remember as a white baseball fan.
3097	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	A quick read that can get even a non-sports person interested in the excitement of a baseball game. I like that the voice and perspective accurately portray the experience of a black American living in the Jim Crow era.
3098	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	It was an eye-opening book to read with my nine year old and unfortunately, all too relevant in today's climate.
3099	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Great graphic novel to help kids understand Jim Crow through baseball. Paige is more of a backstory than the main character but it's a really worthwhile read.
3100	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Good story focusing on the accomplishments of Satchel Paige, as told from the perspective of a former ball player who once played against him. 
3102	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Quick read with neat graphics. Great to get a good idea on the life and times of Paige and baseball between the color lines.
3103	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This slim volume will teach readers about an important era in baseball history.
3104	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I can understand the frustration with this book. Despite the title, it is NOT a book about Satchel Paige. However, it IS a good insight into the Jim Crow South. The title is a misnomer, though. 
3105	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Interesting but expected to be a story about satchel page
3106	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I like the flipping back and forth between how Satchel Paige played and the real lives of the people who watched him. It's heavy, but not in a bad way.
3107	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Nicely illustrated book about Emmet Wilson, an African American player who played in the Negro leagues and was injured in a game against Paige. Well worth the read.
3109	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Strike!  A man missing in plain sight. illustrates how Jim crow crippled this nation wan exposes the cowards . yet it illuminates the desperate black me and their creative efforts
3110	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This is a pretty surface level account of Satchel Paige, with more of an emphasis on the prejudice of the time than his baseball journey.
3111	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Well told story of Paige’s impact on audiences on either side of the color divide while also successfully capturing the spectacle of watching him on the mound.
3112	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige is a god dammned rockstar!
3113	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Masterful reminder of the inspirational power of Satchel Paige specifically and baseball in general. Great writing and artwork.
3114	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Well done graphic novel. I bet it would be awesome for a kid who is a sports nut to learn about the mistreatment of black people in the early to mid 20th century.
3115	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Wow, really great! Learned a lot more that I did not know about Jim Crow, racism, and my dog's name sake.  There's a reason this book won an Eisner Award.
3116	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	It is a great book. 
3117	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Format/Length: Graphic Novel; 89 pages  Award(s)/Distinction(s): 2008 Eisner Award Winner-Best Reality-Based Work 2008 Glyph Comics Award Winner-Best Character Best Writer OYA (Voice of Youth Advocate- Nonfiction Honor List 39th NAACP Award Nominee for Best Literary Work - Youth/Teens A 2007 CYBIL Awards Nominee for Best Graphic Novel A 2008 New York Book Show Award Recipient A Junior Library Guild selection  Theme(s): Baseball, racism, boundaries, discrimination, community, sense of home, family  Read-aloud: pages 9-12  Review:  When looking at the cover, one would think that the main focus of this book is baseball. However, when you read the title, one would realize that it more than a story about baseball. It is a story that occurs during a time when the Jim Crow laws were in place, which means there is separation, inequality, prejudice, and discrimination. The title might also imply that the main character is Satchel Paige, but he is really a secondary character whose story is told through the main character, Emmet's story. Emmet is a young black sharecropper. He decides to leave his wife at home in hopes of making money playing ball. This is what leads his story to intertwining with the story of Satchel Paige. One day, he ends up playing against the great pitcher Satchel Paige. He is able to get a piece of the ball and run the bases, but ends up hurting himself sliding into home. That is the end of his baseball career, but not Satchel's. He continues to play ball and be the star pitcher that everyone encounters, even white ball players. He is depicted in a way that makes the readers see him as arrogant when he arrives late to games and takes his sweet time with each pitch and between pitches. The inequality between the white and black baseball players is highlighted, as well as the inequality between the white and black fans watching the game. There is prejudice and discrimination towards the black baseball players and fans, too. While we see Satchel continue to play ball, Emmet is at home tending the crops and watching the owners of the land mistreating and abusing his son, Emmet Jr. As time goes on, Emmet takes his son Jr. to a game where the Negro League team is playing against a local white team. It is a close game. Very intense, not only the game itself, but the attitude and mood within the ball park. Jr. learns some very interesting details about his father's past and ball playing days. This graphic novel was great!!! Emmet's story told through first-person narrative aloud for me to feel empathy for the main character in a way that I feel would not have happened if told through a different voice.  Writing Instruction:  I feel that this graphic novel is a great way to discuss Jim Crow laws, inequality, prejudice/discrimination, and even legends in a baseball. I would use this these topics as research topics prior to the reading of this graphic novel and have the students give presentations on self-chosen topics or people.
3118	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I liked this. I liked that it was not the typical Civil Rights story or even Civil Rights baseball Jackie Robinson story. Took me a second to put together who the characters all were and how they fit together but still good. 
3119	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This is not actually a biography of Satchel Paige. I had assumed it was, based on the title, but nope. Instead, it is a graphic novel about what Satchel Paige meant to black people in the Jim Crow south as told through the eyes of one man and his son.  Our narrator (whose name is probably Emmett, though it's never outright given) starts out telling us about the time he played baseball against Paige, who, by the way, is arguably the greatest pitcher of all time. Narrator beat Paige, but blew out his knee in the doing. Fast forward several years. We see our narrator's present-day life working as a sharecropper, complete with incredibly awful treatment for himself and his son and the people around him by the white landlords. Then Satchel Paige comes into his life again in an exhibition match. It's tense and taut and really, surprisingly hopeful in tone for a book that deals so deeply with Jim Crow.  The art's great and the story really compelling. I'm only docking it a star for some weird pacing issues. Definitely recommended.
3120	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Genre: Graphic novel, historical fiction  Rating: **** I liked this graphic novel because it used baseball to address racism and what was going on in the country from 1929-1944. While it gave information about Satchel Paige, it also went beyond baseball describing what life was like for African Americans in the south during that time period.  Plot Summary: The story is told from the perspective of a young African American, Emmet Wilson, who leaves home to play in the Negro League in 1929. He scores a run off of Satchel Paige, but blows his knee out and ends his career doing it. When he returns home he faces the daily inequalities of being African American in the south. After some rough years and hard luck, Satchel Paige comes to town to play baseball agains the White All Star team of Tuckwilla Alabama. What follows is a riveting baseball game, as well as some soul searching from Emmet.  Main Characters: Emmet Wilson is a young ball player with the Negro League at the beginning of the story. He leaves home to play ball and earn some money so he can lead a better life. Unfortunately he blows out his knee and is unable to play after scoring a run off of Satchel Paige. Emmet has trouble feeling comfortable with himself after his injury.  Satchel Paige is a famous baseball player. He played in the Negro League and eventually the Major Leagues after Jackie Robinson breaks the colored barrier. He was a real show man and a fantastic pitcher.  Key Issues: racism, overcoming obstacles, baseball, Jim Crow Laws  Other Interesting Information: This book has good information in the Introduction and Panel Discussion located in the front and back of the book.
3121	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"From the Center for Cartoon Studies comes another biographical book to follow ""Houdini: The Handcuff King."" This was a fascinating graphic novel look at the times of Satchel Paige, star pitcher of the Negro Leagues in the 1920s-30s. Interestingly, the story is told by a young African-American sharecropper whose first game saw him get a hit off one of Satchel's famous pitches, but a busted knee at home plate ended his career early.  I learned quite a bit about this time in history that I did not know (or retain from school years), thanks to the story and the endnotes (""Panel Discussions"") which gave further details about certain panels in the story. It seems that, in schoolbooks, a lot of focus is given to the abolishment of slavery, and, later, the feats of those such as Jackie Robinson and civil rights pioneers, while the in-between times, in which Jim Crow laws held strong and sharecropping was not much of an improvement over slavery, have far fewer stories told. That is one of many reasons why this is a very important book.  I don't think you would understand all of this book if you didn't have a basic idea how baseball is played, but just about anyone can connect to it on an emotional level. As long as you understand ""three strikes and you're out,"" there are several parts in this book that will have your heart pounding in suspense. The N-word occurs once, but in a very important context.  One of my favorite parts was learning how the players played ""shadow ball"" to warm up. Do players still do this?"
3122	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow is a work of historical fiction that focuses on the Jim Crows laws in the south and the sport of baseball. Told from the point of view of an unnamed black baseball player, it tells of the narrator's first encounter with the legendary Satchel Paige. From there, it shows how their lives differed from that moment, and the final baseball game where Satchel Paige brilliantly struck out three white players. There are many elements that make Satchel Paige, Striking out Jim Crow, a success. Although the presence of a fictional narrator and his story prevents the story from being a true biography, the author does a great job of weaving in facts from Paige's life as well as information about the Jim Crow laws. The artwork is very simple, done in black, white and gold tones, but it effectively manages to capture the tension and excitement presented in a baseball game, as well as the emotions of the main character. After the story has been told, there are several pages which expand on the historical background of certain panels, giving the readers more information on topics like sharecropping, the negro baseball league, and Paige's life. The writers do not shy away from some of the more disturbing elements of racism, as can be seen in the silhouette of a man that has been lynched, and the mention of the n-word, making it a read more for mature readers. Recommend Grade Level- 5 and up Genre- historical fiction
3123	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"This black and white graphic novel tells a compelling story of race relations in the South before the Civil Rights Movement. The famous baseball player Satchel Paige is the central piece that ties the stories together, but the narrator is a washed up baseball player trying to raise his family as a share cropper on a farm owned by two racist brothers. The excitement of playing baseball shines through, but the game is also looked at as the only place where Black players from the Negro Leagues could stand up to White players in exhibition games. The diamond was one of the few places where the men were judged by their talent, not solely by their race.  The book is written in Black vernacular of the South, but the story is still accessible to children. I think parents and teachers should read this along with the children because there are so many great opportunities to discuss American history and racism. The author provides a forward that gives facts about Satchel Page (like the fact that he pitched professionally until he was 69!) and an Epilogue that has historical facts and discussion points for each page of the book.  **The book does use the word ""nigger"" on one page, but it is within historical context and does add to the story."
3124	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Sturm, J. & Tommaso, R. (2007). Satchel Paige: Striking out jim crow. New York: Hyperion Paperbacks. Fiction. This story is about Satchel Paige, an outstanding pitcher who flourished in the Negro Leagues and the Major Leagues. The graphic novel is told in flashback during the Jim Crow days of the South. The fictional narrator, Emmet Wilson, is a baseball player benched after an injury, who eventually has to return to his life as a sharecropper to support his family. When Emmet decides he will send his young son to school instead of having him work in the fields, the boy is mercilessly beaten along the way. The next page shows the boy working in the field, close to his father. The book parallels the events that happen to Emmet’s family under Jim Crow to events experienced by African American baseball players. The story culminates with Satchel Paige’s team coming to play against the all white hometown team. The white team does not have a chance against Paige’s skill and, thus, Paige strikes out Jim Crow. The story is accompanied by strong graphic imagery that will stay with a reader far after the book is finished. Lessons: This book would work well with unite on racism, Jim Crow, baseball legends, and heroes. 
3125	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Audience: ages 12 and up  In 1929 no one wanted to be called up to hit against Satchel Paige! As the fastest pitcher in the National Negro League, and widely regarded as the fastest pitcher in all of baseball, Paige's reputation made him one of the most famous players of his time. Narrated by Emmett Wilson, a black baseball player who was forced to return to a life of sharecropping after being injured, James Sturm's novel gives the reader a taste of Paige's funny personality and amazing talent against the backdrop of the shockingly cruel world of Jim Crow.  With clean-lined black, white, and sage green artwork, Tommaso pays great attention to light and shadow mimicking the dark contrast between the levity of Paige's game on the baseball diamond and the somber setting of the sharecroppers' world in Tuckawilla, Alabama. A concise glossary in the back of the book helps define historical terms and events such as "" lynching"" and ""African American Press"". This book was included in Booklist's 2008 Top 10 Black History Books for Youth and YALSA's 2008 Top 10 Great Graphic Novels for Teens, was nominated for a number of Eisner Awards and won the 2008 Eisner Award for Best Reality-Based Work. Recommended as an essential purchase for children, teen, and adult collections. "
3126	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Two heroic public appearances by Negro Leagues legend Satchel Paige bookend the story, but the book's unnamed narrator -- a former Negro Leaguer who has become a sharecropper -- steals the show. Sturm and artist Rich Tommaso develop the narrator's emotions in a series of sharp domestic vignettes and let them frame and give meaning to Paige's electrifying feats.  Sturm's love for the game -- previously demonstrated in The Golem's Mighty Swing -- is again obvious here, but he doesn't nerd out or show off with unnecessary details. He paces the gametime sequences for maximum drama, and Tommaso handles the body language pitch-perfectly. Some parts will whizz right by readers who don't know the rules of baseball, but those parts are also some of the best parts of the book.  The baseball stuff provides us a window onto a life regulated by the cycle of anger at and fear of the white man, the psychic noose shadowing the historical one. Satchel Paige's gift to the narrator and his young son is both a nine-inning escape from that life and a stirring justification for demolishing its boundaries.
3127	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	The Beginning of this book is very similar to me in a way. I pay very much attention to the fact that the way that he pays attention to the ball is just like the way i do. You have to pay great attention to that ball before you hit it. The middle of the book mostly told about the Town That he used to live in. It also Told about the segregation in Tuckwilla, Alabama. They're Mayor Mr.Walker Jennings was very racist against the colored people in town. For example, In this Graphic Novel, They had a festival in the Town of Tuckwilla. They had a man by the name of Wallace Jennings, Wallace's Son, showed up and was hitting baseballs far into the forest. Many colored children ran in after the ball. When they got a hold of the ball, They were SO excited to grab a hold of that ball. But then unfortunately, Mr.Walker Jennings, Wallace's Father, came over and took the ball away from the kids, Just because They were colored. Isn't That CRAZY!!??. Thats not the worst someone could have done, but still?! That shows how that even segregation can appear in the smallest of towns. Sometimes that can be the worst of Descrimintaion. -Austin R.
3128	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow is a wonderful graphic novel from The Center for Cartoon Studies. This historical comic is able to grab the reality of the Jim Crow South in a very realistic way. The art in this comic is able to highlight the reality of the time. It's not to cartoony to be seen as a fluff comic. Instead the tree tone color helps bring the comic alive.  I would recommend this beautiful comic to anyone who is interested in baseball history. The book show cases barnstorming base balling. A practice that is no longer used today. The end of the book also has a little glossary for things you might not have known. The little descriptions will help teach about many different aspects of the Jim Crow South.  Although this comic is geared more to a young audience it holds up for more grown people. I would say if you are interested at all about one of the greatest pitchers ever you should read this book.
3129	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	First of all, I think it's great this book exists. The Negro Leagues are something most kids know nothing about, and though most school kids can name Jackie Robinson, that's usually about it for baseball history. And let's face it, in a lot of ways, baseball history, especially that far back, is a huge part of American history.  That being said, I only found the book to be so-so. I think part of it was that it took me a while to adjust to the narrator. First of all, I assumed it was Satchel until I learned otherwise, several pages in. Then I wanted to know about the narrator--was he a real guy? How many of the details were real? I like to know if my non-fiction is really non-fiction or if it's fictionalized, and I don't know in this case, but I can guess that it's fictionalized. Thing is, I know enough to guess, but not all readers in the intended audience do.  Reading scavenger hunt: athlete
3130	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow by James Sturm and Rich Tommaso Satchel Paige used his baseball skill and his brilliant personality to make a statement about humanity and about racism that could never have been expressed in words. This quick graphic biography illustrates the tension during Jim Crow in the United States and those who acted out against it—without ever raising a hand beyond pitching a ball. The light, pencil-style drawings and sparse use of color add to the movement of the story as well as the tension—and short prose-style pages at the start and ending of the work educate the reader about the history of Jim Crow and the African Baseball League of United States History. Every baseball fan should read it. ""How do men so small get so large? Who made it so? You live under their ruling for so long that you soon forget who you are, what you can be."" --Sturman and Tommaso on racism "
3131	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Yet again James Sturm manages to give us a facinating story- which also conveys an amazing depth of a historical situation, a time and a place, that has meaning to us all.  In this book, he delves into the concept of black americans and thier love of baseball- even in the face of racism at a level most modern folks cannot fathom. When slavery was abolished, it didn't mean that suddenly all blacks were free to be equal citizens- we all know that. But what we might not know, and James Sturm shows us, is what it was LIKE to exist in that middle ground time period- when you were almost still a slave, and much less than a 'second class' citizen... and yet some folks rose up out of that as something special and unique... like Satchel Paige.  This is a facinating book even if you don't care for baseball (or like me, also don't know jack about it!) ...but if you love baseball, it's really a must-read!
3132	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	A lauable piece of work; a graphic arts and non-fiction version of the career of Satchel Paige, I was fully engaged in this book and amazed that the illustrator captured the game of basball so well one frame at a time. You knew what was happening, even if like myself, you do not know the rules of the game. You can follow the game while relating to the dialogue of multiple characters. Gaining a sense of the prevalent emotions; the anger, the disrespect, the frusration felt within the ball players and the African American community at large becomes palpable. You come to understand how Paige used his pitches to strike back at the racial injustices he had to face even as one of the top athletes. A triumphant, proud pitcher, Satchel Paige, was a symbol of hope and pride for Blacks during an era when Black voices were scared silent. Satchel said it for them with his baseball. 
3133	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This interweaves early 20th century segregation in the deep south and the life of Satchel Paige with a fictional story of a black sharecropper who had a brief career in the Negro Leagues. And really, it's more about this guy, his world, and the sorts of things he and his family deal with as a result of Jim Crow laws, segregation, and institutionalized racism than anything else. And it's powerful stuff, well told and excellently drawn, but I have to admit, I was hoping for a lot more Satchel Paige than we got. He's more of a presence than a character, only showing up in two sequences. Key sequences, mind you, but still, only the two. But I'm sure there are other biographies out there on Paige, and I'm now inspired to hunt them down, and despite his prominence in the title, the telling of Paige's life story is not the purview of this book.
3134	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow is a really interesting read, as it tells the story of Negro League superstar Satchel Paige, but from the perspective of a washed out baseball player, making it more of a story that contains Satchel Paige than really a story about him. The story still delivers all of the facts that you would want to know about one of the world's greatest all-time pitchers, but you are also given a glimpse into the southern US during the Jim Crow years, which partnered with the graphic novel presentation of the book can really paint a vivid picture.  I would recommend this book to baseball fans for sure, and would probably say it would be alright for 3rd grade and up, as the book is moderately lengthy and the subject matter should be alright for that level. A very informative read from a different perspective, would definitely recommend.
3135	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	First of all, the group that seems to have created this book, The Center for Cartoon Studies, seems pretty interesting, but I haven't been able to find much more out about them yet.  Regarding the book, I will say that it was enjoyable to read, and tells a worthwhile story, but this is far from a biography of Satchel Paige. The Preface provides the clearest overall view of Paige's life, and is a nice read. The graphic portion of the story is well done and held my attention to the end. I liked the story, even the unnamed narrator's portion that had absolutely nothing to do with Satchel Paige. I really liked the Notes portion at the end, giving more detail on various elements touched on throughout the story. I could definitely see myself using this book as a nonfiction/fiction accompanying piece all in one.
3136	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This graphic novel is electrifying. The drawings are based on photographs and paintings from the Jim Crow era, and truly evoke the drama and landscape. The historical context is laid out with and excellent “Panel Discussions” section. The story is told by a sharecropper who played with the Negro League and managed to score a hit against the great pitcher Satchel Paige, but in the process injured his knee and had to go back to farming for cruel white landowners in the Jim Crow era. The book is raw, exposing the racism and cruelty of the time, but the story is also beautiful, with a man connecting to himself and his son after seeing the great pitcher defeat a racist white team. Great for baseball fans or history buffs. 
3137	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	i think this comic was good because of how innocent it was, like when he author talks about how satched paige's first thoughts where not about being famous and what he wanted but about how he could help his family. the art is very abstract and the only colors used in the whole book is green. i am not a huge fan of baseball but i can respect it. this book demonstrates how bad African Americans where treated despite the fact that there team was clearly more successful than other non African American athletes, and its because they when they played they played with heart. for the benefit of there family's. i don't know who to recommend this book to because it seems like everyone is the target audience, not just a single group of people. 
3138	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	What a great book & graphic novel! The story is told through the eyes of another black baseball player who played one game against the great Satchel Paige. It's not so much about Satchel Page's life but about the hope he brings to African Americans living in the Jim Crow era South. There is also a lot of detail about baseball - types of pitches, strategy, etc. - that is over my head but someone into baseball would really appreciate that. There's also an introduction and afterword which goes into more detail about Satchel Paige and the racial/social/economic climate in which the story is set. 
3139	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow, a graphic comic, tells the story of Leroy “Satchel” Paige through the eyes of a poor sharecropper that once played ball with Paige in the Negro National League. However, the book is not a true biography of Paige. The sharecropper mainly describes what life was like for him and his family when the United States was segregated and ‘separate but equal’ was the law of the land. Using baseball as the backdrop, author James Sturm and Rich Tommaso use Paige’s career and personality to teach young readers a unique history lesson about Jim Crow’s impact on the nation.  
3140	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"This book is very misleading, it claims to be about Satchel Page but it actually from another Negro League players point of view. I understand the point the author was trying to make, but he could have easily made it by showing the racism Paige encountered on the road rather than forcing his main character into a cameo role.  The colors, or lack of them don't help this book either. Instead the rough and gritty feel of the art makes the book drag. Avoid this one at all costs and pair a biography of Paige with Dan Gutman's fantastic ""Satch and Me,"" if you want to learn about this truly brave and charming man."
3141	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	96 pages - This is about the pitcher Satchel Paige, who played for various baseball teams for the Negro League in the 1930s through the 1970s! He eventually was signed to a major league team shortly after Jackie Robinson. I am really not interested in baseball, but this gave me an appreciation for the game. it was especially interesting how the games in the Negro league were different from the white leagues. Great drawings in the book seem to evoke the time it was written about. - Mr. O'Shell
3142	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Paige is a nice addition to this curious wave of segregation era graphic novels such as Stagger Lee, Incognegro and Bluesman that deal with race and masculinity. It's short, but really well-told with a terrific sense of pacing and perspective. The artwork is spare and although you can barely make out the features on some of the character's faces, I was surprised at how moved I was by the story. There is a two-page spread of a cotton field during a key scene that took my breath away.
3143	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I thought it was interesting to learn about the pre-integration period of American baseball though the story of one of the leading African American ballplayers. The authors did a good job painting the picture of what life was like during that time, and how African Americans were treated differently than white ballplayers. The illustrations were generally good (this is a graphic novel), though I would have liked more color. It is a good book to learn some interesting historical and sports facts. 
3144	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Wonderful book from the ""Center for Cartoon Studies,"" a great teaching book for kids who don't know the history of Jim Crow. Satchel Paige played baseball and realized the Great American Dream -- and he was one hwo helped makde the ballparks of America level playing fields for everyone.  ""Ain't no man can avoid being born average, but there ain't no man got to be common."" Satchel Paige  Paige was one of the greatest pitchers ever, and he had a wide variety of pitches. But my favorite was his ""B"" ball -- ""I throws it and it bees where I wants it to bees!"""
3145	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I thought that this was just going to be a biographical graphic novel and I can't read enough about the fabulous Satchel Paige, so I was a little surprised when it turned out to be written from the point of view of another Negro League player. It starts with the narrator going to bat against Satchel Paige, then continues to be about the lives of both men. I ended up liking the format because I already know a lot about probably the best pitcher to ever take the mound, but got to learn what his success meant to his fans and the African American community.
3146	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	As a librarian I'm a bit confused as to which collection this book should belong in. Fiction or non-fiction? Maybe biography? Children's or YA? I have no idea since this graphic novel is a brilliant little amalgam of all of the above.  It should be noted that this book is really more about Jim Crow than it is about Satchel Paige. Instead, the baseball great is really an effective tool for looking at the time period in this narrative. But seeing the story through someone else's eyes is probably more meaningful than if we saw it from Paige's perspective.
3147	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Yeahhhh....so this Center for Cartoon Studies, which ostensibly knows things about comics and cartoons and narrative and history, had this great opportunity to write about a black guy who played baseball and WASN'T named Jackie Robinson, and then they wrote this comic book, which is just a replay of an intense ball game and ends with platitudes about overcoming boundaries. There's also stuff about sharecropping that's good, but it's not a about the title page, so that doesn't make sense. Basically, this book was a waste, and that's sad.
3148	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige Striking Out Jim Crow by James Sturn and Rich Tommaso is the story of a legendary African American Pitcher and how he came to be known and loved by blacks and whites even during the time of segregation. This book has very good illustrations and is a quick read. It would appeal most to boys that enjoy playing baseball and are familiar with some of the legendary players. Although I was unable to find a lexile level for this book it would be appropriate for upper elementary and middle school students.
3149	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I wished there was a bit more to the story or a deeper sense to the story because I wasn't impacted as much as I thought I would be in demonstrating how one man's talent in baseball playing in the black leagues because he wasn't allowed to play in the white's league could change ideas and demonstrate the idiocy of Jim Cros laws.  Satchel, his nickname, was a fierce competitor, which was shown and shared in the graphic novel, but there needed to be a bit more setting and historical background, so while I think it was laid out well, I wanted more.
3150	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Who was baseball’s greatest player ever? Who would walk two men – on purpose, before striking out the next three? -- Satchel Paige did that in the 1942 Negro World Series. He went on to pitch for another 30 years! And was finally inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1971. Sturm, the head of the Center for Cartoon Studies uses Paige’s story a device to show the cruelty and hardships under the Jim Crow days in the South.
3151	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Summary: Follows a man who once played with pitcher Satchel Paige and the struggles he and his family have in the racist South. Also provides details of Paige's life and his historical and social significance. Strengths: History comes to life. Succinct but powerful. The words and artwork compliment each other perfectly. It's a cliche, but kids will be entertained but also learn something.
3152	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	An interesting graphic novel, Satchel Paige has some good drawings and tells an interesting story. Ever since I visited the Negro Leagues museum in Kansas City a few years ago, I've been interested in reading about the great black players who played before Jackie Robinson integrated baseball. This is a good work about the most famous of those players, pitcher and Hall of Famer Satchel Paige, and it's pretty good for older elementary kids and up.
3153	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	2009 Graphic Novel/Biography Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow is a graphic novel book about baseball and all about the amazing affect Satchel Paige had on this great sport. Strum does a very good job of weaving other important topics of the era into this book such as sharecropping, prejudices’ in the South and how it affected these baseball players. Instead of a regular biography, Strum made this book intriguing to the readers and appealed to a new population by making it a graphic novel 
3154	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"This book is a great companion piece to Kadir Nelson's ""We Are the Ship."" It is a graphic novel that focuses on how great Satchel Paige was as a pitcher, and how the talent of the players in the Negro Leagues helped lead to the integration of baseball, and eventually to the Civil Rights movement when it became the law of the land. The graphic form makes it accessible to lower reading levels than ""We Are the Ship"" yet Nelson's book can put the color into the text of Sturm's work."
3155	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This brief graphic novel tells the story of Satchel Paige as seen through the eyes of Emmet Wilson, a ballplayer who once had the privilege of facing the pitching great. Paige's success on the mound is contrasted with the segregation he faced off it. The book also shows Wilson's life after baseball and the daily struggles he and other ordinary African-Americans faced. It's a great introduction to Satchel Paige's life and makes me want to read a biography on him. 
3156	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Effective in the telling, the story switches between ""newsreels"" of Paige's increasing fame and success and the brutality that regular African-Americans in the South had to suffer. The brutality is not so much in the showing (one exception is the silhouette of a hanged man), as the inferred (a young boy is terrorized and beaten, neither of which is shown). The effect is psychologically wearing, wondering when the racial tension will break, if ever, and how, if at all. "
3157	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Being an avid baseball fan and enjoying the history of the game, I greatly enjoyed James Strum's graphic novel, ""Satchel Paige: Striking Out Jim Crow."" It's a wonderful book, with historical depth, humor, suspense, tragedy, and sensitivity towards the topics it addresses. The author and illustrator really provide a deep insight into the sensitive subject of segregation. Due to the violence portrayed, I'd recommend this book for ages 9 and up."
3158	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This book gave me only a taste of the life of Satchel Paige.......I honestly was expecting more about him specifically. But by telling the story from the perspective of a sharecropper on Alabama, Paige's impact on the lives of people navigating the Jim Crow south is more evident. The information about the times and about baseball at the back of the book was also helpful. I learned a lot, but want to learn more about Paige's life.
3159	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"2007 Cybils Graphic Novel nominee  By the same publisher as Houdini the Handcuff King. Neither book is visually stunning (2-color) but the scholarship on both is great. There's lots of information in the story line and ""Panel Discussions"" in the back with more detailed historical and background information. Perfect for middle grade and up."
3160	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"I'm all hip and shit reading graphic novels. does it count as a ""novel"" if it's only 89 pages long? if not, re-phrase: I'm all hip and shit reading graphic novella's. *and also why is this subtitled ""striking out Jim Crow"" because unless I missed something the book ended with segregation still in place. huh?"
3161	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Hmm. A little (actually a lot) too paint-by-numbers racism story for most of it, with a surprisingly moving little turn near the end. A little too much drawn out baseball too.  But geez, I really love Sturm's style. Like a lot a lot. I am never going to not read a book by this dude. So beautiful and so unassuming.
3162	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Wow. Lisa--add this to your Graphic Novels for adults list, even though its targeted at YA. Excellent story. Historical fiction, I'd say, w/ great themes. And while not really a biography, it's definitely a fantastic tribute to the real man Satchel Paige. We Are the Ship fueled my interest and I think will do the same for kid readers. 
3163	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige is considered one of the best pitchers in baseball - ever. The fact that he didn't play in the 'Major Leagues' until he was 42 shows the injustice that black people lived with in a country divided by race. Mr. Paige shows that the color of a man's skin doesn't matter when it comes to playing America's favorite past time.  
3164	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"It's hard not to compare this to James Sturm's other book about early 20th century baseball, ""The Golem's Mighty Swing"", clearly the more personal of the two works (he also drew that one, which isn't the case here). That being said, when I read old timey baseball comics by Sturm, I actually understand the sport's appeal, so he must be doing something right."
3165	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Even though I'm not a graphic novel person, I enjoyed this story told from the perspective of an African-American baseball league player injured trying to score off Satchel Paige, who then goes home to work the land and raise a family in Jim Crow Alabama.  I think it may be a little young for the Peach Award target audience
3166	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Though I was surprised by the mature themes in the graphic novel because it was in the kid's section, I found the book moving and well-done. I cried reading the end with my son. It also required me to briefly explain the ""n-word"" to him, which i didn't want to do just yet, but I like that it sparked discussion and didn't talk down to either of us. Highly recommended."
3167	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Beautiful, strong, detailed, engaging and chock full of both baseball and the struggle for civil rights. The author does a great job finding a balance between the personal and small scale importance of having someone of Satchel Paige's stature come to town barnstorming and the larger historical forces. masterful. And moving and not at all didactic.
3168	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Satchel Paige was an amazing baseball pitcher. His career spanned 6 decades. He was the most famous African American baseball player alongside Jackie Robinson. This graphic novel highlights the barriers Paige faced and the amazing ability and character he displayed when playing ball. Super good and sure to be enjoyed by anyone interested in sports history.
3169	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This is a gem of comics literature plain and simple. It is not a biography of Satchel Paige, but more one man's slice of life story, illustrating the experiences of many blacks who had to live under the barbaric Jim Crow laws...or worse yet, face racist vigilantes. 
3170	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This is a book that I've read a lot about and it's the second title I've read from the Center for Carton Studies. It's an excellent tribute to a baseball player and much of it is about the Jim Crow laws in the south at the time.
3171	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Not a biography, but a ""through the eyes of"" story, I liked it for the simple illustrations, study of Paige's throwing technique, plus a bit of pitcher/batter psychology. It wasn't really insightful, but a basic study that showed me a bit of who he is at around a 9-11 year old reading level."
3172	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Wonderful graphic novel told from the point of view of a character who once got a hit off Satchel Paige. Beautifully illustrated, with a glossary of historical fact at the back. Even if you're not a baseball fan or don't know much about baseball, this book should draw you in and shake you up.
3173	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Is it just me, or are there a weird plethora of comic stories about baseball? I really like this story, and I think its simple style is a perfect match. It even managed to keep me from skimming through the baseball scenes.
3174	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	A big, fun introduction to one of the all time great baseball players on any baseball field, Satchel Paige. The book provides high interest and good quality reading that also introduces readers to a different time in baseball. 
3175	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This is raelly a hybrid between a biography historical fiction. The story told is a good one that most kids and many adults will not have heard before. The baseball sequences are exciting and plentiful. The introduction and notes at the end include more information for curious readers.
3176	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I rated this the way I did, not because it wasn't excellent literature, it was, but because I just didn't find it all that entertaining. It was hard for me to relate to. It was an interesting story and telling it in the form of a graphic novel was a great idea.
3177	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I didn't know anything about Satchel Paige before, and now I do!  A quick educational read. I wasn't blown away or anything, but it was very sweet and well-told. There's an introduction in the beginning, and a few pages of contextual facts at the end.
3178	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	IF you like baseball, check this out. It tells more than just baseball. Page was one of the greats and I have enjoyed reading about him in the past. This was just another chapter of this man that so many considered to be the best. 
3179	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I usually don't like graphic novels with a lot of narration (because WHY do you need NARRATION in a GRAPHIC NOVEL? Let the pictures do the talking!), but I think the historical information was important enough to be noted in narrated form.  Also, heart-wrenching, but ultimately hopeful. :D
3180	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Loved this comic! A piece of historical fiction surrounding a man and his encounters with Satchel Paige. You learn so much about the South in the early twentieth century. I added this to Adult Graphic Novel from teen. I know it's younger, but it's a really good book!
3181	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I really enjoyed the way this story was told. It was less a biography of Satchel Paige than it was a story of Jim Crow. It didn't demonize one race or glorify another. Bullies are bullies and heroes are heroes.
3182	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This is a good introduction for young graphic novel readers on the harsh facts of segregation in sports and society during the Jim Crow era. However, the illustrations were dull and not terribly appealing. 
3183	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I went into this hoping for a fun, informative story about Mr. Paige, but aside from appearances at the start and end of the story, it really wasn't about him at all. It feels like this book is trying to tackle two subjects at once, and doesn't do either very well. I did like the artwork, however. 
3184	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I really liked this book it was very good. It also gave you a look at the depression and how cruelly blacks were treated. I think it's cool that Satchel Paige was treated like a legend even though he was black.
3185	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I was a little confused by this book. I thought it was non-fiction, and thought it was a bio about Satchel Paige. It always takes me longer than the average person to catch on.  That said, it's an enjoyable book, and the graphics are bold and unique. 
3186	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Not really about Satchel Paige but about a man who played against him and one of the games he witnessed later in his life. I am intrigued by Paige and want to read more about him so if that was the goal this books works, but I was hoping for more about Paige from a book that bears his name. 
3187	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Notes: - great baseball action - historical perspective, notes in back matter - snapshot of Paige's personality - definite teen appeal - liked the artwork...color was an interesting choice
3188	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Another beautifully done history by the Center for Cartoon Studies
3189	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I might get this for my 8-year-old nephew, but be warned: it does have the n-word in it.
3190	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Not a biography of the greatest pitcher ever, but a great story of what it was like to live under Jim Crow. Give it to a kid who doesn't like to read but has to do a report on segregation.
3191	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	   Synopsis :    Review :    Critical Reviews :
3192	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Loved the baseball action and period detail, but I was hoping this would be more of a biography. Still, pretty enjoyable graphic novel.
3193	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	My full review here
3194	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	A very good read. It gives us an insight into Satchel Paige's life and personality, as well as the cultural hardships he had to deal with in the time period. Very nice art as well.
3195	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Great Story, Easy to read. Quick paced announcer type diaologue of baseball games. Information on segregation and racism.  Wonan Eisner Award for best reality based graphic novel in 2008.
3196	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"This is a complex book. The panel discussion at the end of the book adds further facts and details to the book.  ""Paige ain't jawin' no more. In nine pitches he said what he had to say."" Page 80"
3197	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I liked the illustrations and the story here but it wasn't as much about Paige as I expected it to be. I found the introduction more informative than the graphic novel portion.
3198	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	This was a cool graphic novel about a person I'd never heard of before. I liked the art and the fact that I was also learning something new. 
3199	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I would have loved more about Satchel Paige, less about Jim Crow.
3200	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Pretty good. Hero worship comics had a big hump to get over, but this approached both Jim Crow and baseball from a interesting enough angle. 
3201	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Click to see book in BCPL's online catalog 
3202	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Everything published by the Center for Cartoon Studies is worth reading!
3203	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"This was a cool read as ca graphic Novel . Excellent for introducing young reads to Black baseball's ""Negro League"" "
3204	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Really great stuff! I enjoyed it and learned some too. 
3205	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Don't expect a dense, animated biography. This story introduces the legend of Satchel Paige, but only enough to make the reader curious to read more. Took no time at all to read.
3206	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	A wonderful informative quick read.
3207	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	A very segragational book about the Jim crow laws around the time of satchel Paige.
3208	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Simple, accessible art style and a clear, direct narrative make for a enjoyable read. 
3209	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Historical fiction; quick read. Fascinating story about little-known hero.
3210	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	If your school gets upset about swear words, there's one towards the end. In the beginning I thought the narrator wasn't set up very well, but I liked the way everything circled together by the end. 
3211	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	"Enjoyable, but with ""Satchel Paige"" in the title, I'd like to have learned something about the man. "
3212	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Great story line and detailed illustrations
3213	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	The amazing story of Satchel Paige told in an unexpected way. 
3214	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	it was a great book and it really told a story
3215	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Ages 10 and up
3216	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	nice mixing of history of the Negro leagues and general history of 1940's in the south. 
3217	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	I enjoyed this!
3218	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	Fabulous graphic novel about a baseball hero!
3220	Satchel_Paige:_Striking_Out_Jim_Crow	It is a good book if you are into baseball.
3221	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	This is the sort of biography I find very frustrating. The author seems to assume that I already know about Eileen Gray, so the story just jumps around randomly to a bunch of different moments from her life, giving me a pile of vignettes that do not really add much to my knowledge of the subject. Real historical figures wander the page but aren't properly introduced until a cast list in the end matter, like I'm going to go back and read it again.  Eileen Gray seems like she may have been an interesting person; I only wish I got to know her here.
3223	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	"This was gorgeous and human. It wasn't as accessible as it seemed by the cover and first couple pages but by the end of the short - sometimes disjointed - read I felt... like it was messy in the real-world way of messiness of lives and art and design and relationships. Author's intro ""This one is for the girls, women and grannies, and the men that support them"" (It was fun to hold on to and read a book by ""nobrow"" publishers as well! Oh the Brits...)"
3225	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	what a charming book. Rather than an extensive biography, it reveals a snippet of eileen gray’s life, serving as an introduction to her work, leaving reader hungry to find out more.
3226	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Gorgeous drawings! This comic book itself is already a piece of art. I assume that if you want to know more about Eileen Gray, you should read a biography though.  I would like to focus on how men tried to give their names to Eileen Gray's creations. Even in the contemporary 1930s Paris, women would face misogyny and would not be taken seriously, and I am glad we're living in an era where we are putting the spotlight on who matters.
3227	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	"I was led to this book by Queer Comics Database, when looking for biographies of queer personalities in graphic novel form. It seemed attractive on many counts; I am somewhat interested in architecture, I like reading about female artists, and the illustrator is Polish, like me. The book, however, was disappointing.  There's little information about Gray's lesbian forays; the characters seem really uninterested in one another, and mostly speak either in artistic manifestos, or very little, or not at all (there are many shots of the ""silently gazing"" variety). At some point, my husband said this would make a really bad movie, and I have to agree. The plot covers a section of Gray's life, with some flashback/ backstory chapters, and heavily relies on character chart/ afterword to provide additional information. So, in short: not very good writing, and the plot is not exactly thrilling, either. Which is not that terribly surprising given that the author is an architect, scholar and urban designer. I most likely would not be able to write a good graphic biography, either.  The artwork is somewhat better, although I am not a fan of this style. There were some really nice, metaphorical ideas for transitions and spreads."
3228	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	The graphic novel jumps around a bit depicting different vignettes of Eileen Gray’s life. That strategy seemed fitting in the telling of her life, but I’d say this graphic novel gives you a taste of who she is not a good understanding. 
3231	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	 2.5 Stars!  “Architecture is not just about beautiful arrangements of lines, but homes for actual people! Bodily experience! The senses can be evoked through architecture and furniture, textures, lights…”  I didn’t find the art work in here to be great, but still it works really well with the subject and era it depicts. This book centres around Gray’s creation of the E-1027 in the south of France, a startling example of modernism by someone who didn’t emerge from a typical or traditional background in the field of architecture.  This was too bitty and shallow to give a proper insight into Gray or her work, but still I enjoyed it enough and I did learn a thing or two, even if it had a kind of unfinished feel to it. 
3232	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	I'm not sure I learned much about Eileen Gray in this book, but the gentle art and time-traveling narrative were pleasant companions on a Sunday evening. Jumping somewhat confusingly between timelines, we see Gray start a business, commune with friends, and glumly coexist with her lover in the house she designed.  The book is as much a biography of the house, E-1027, as the architect. It also leans a bit heavily into design theory, featuring multiple scenes of characters mulling over ideal living conditions. Still, I never found myself bored (or overly invested) - Eileen Gray just kind of chugs pleasantly along. I certainly appreciated the end notes so that I could actually learn a thing or two about the characters.
3233	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	This was solid and haunting but felt kind of incomplete. 
3234	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	A beautiful introduction to the life of Eileen Gray. 
3235	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	An interesting bit of history I had no idea about. Now I want to see the house!
3237	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Highly recommend!  After reading Alison by Lizzy Stewart, I wanted to read another graphic novel cantering on a woman (and written/designed by two), and I saw this on the library shelf.  A gorgeous sweeping picture of Eileen Gray, the Irish architect and designer, a pioneer of the Modernist movement. Throughout her life and even after, her achievements have been largely swept under the rug and created to her partner. This story really allows Eileen to speak for herself and gives her life achievements back to her.  The art is absolutely stunning and the story is slow but deeply layered. Finished in one sitting!
3238	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	I was looking for a biography book to inspire me in architecture and I am so happy I came across this one. As mentioned in the other reviews, it is not a complete from-start-to-end biography but rather tells the story of the house E-1027. With the stunning illustrations and (sometimes) limited text it felt like watching a well made artistic movie. I just wish it was longer.
3239	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	A Room of One's Own was on my mind a lot as I was reading this. Carving out their own space was so hard for women, even ones that were literal architects.  The artwork is lovely and the story is told in a very spare, elegant way.
3241	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Very hard to follow. I didn't understand anything because I wasn't familiar with the person and her life. But art was beautiful.
3243	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Leaves you wanting more Review of the hardcover graphic novel (2019)  This was a good introduction to designer/architect Eileen Gray (1878-1976) which centres around her design of the building code-named E-1027 which is situated on the French Riviera.  Several characters from the 1920's/1930's Parisian arts & letters scene are provided cameos so fans will recognize Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, Djuna Barnes et al in some party scenes.  Overall the story covered Eileen Gray's life in a light manner which left me wanting to know a lot more. It would have seemed more complete with further details about her customized furniture designs and building & room layout of E-1027 which I mostly had to look up via Wikipedia and other online sources. Caroline Constant's Eileen Gray seems to be the top choice for further information in print.  Eileen Gray: A House Under the Sun was part of Parisian bookshop Shakespeare and Company's 2019 Year of Reading subscription series.
3244	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	"I refuse to pay 22 dollars for a lyft, and it wouldve taken 1.5 hour to get home via public transport, and so I decided to walk to my gf's work and wait the 1.5 hours for her to get done. There was a library next door so I got 3 books, 2 of which were graphic novels. I basically chose blindly with no clue what was inside.  The structure of this story was extremely confusing to someone who knew nothing. It jumps around in time but not in a way that makes any sense. I read all the bios at the end and then went back, and that helped. This is not a good book for someone who is totally unfamiliar with the events in Eileen Gray's life and work. I think the bios should have been first. I was under the impression that the e-1027 lover was also a woman up until she got mad at him for having the underage girls over, because Eileen seemed like a lesbian to me. So I had to go back and re read it which totally changes the context of the mural part with le corbusier as a male intrusion into a feminine space etc, I was confused on a couple quotes in the book before I realized this.  Regarding the murals: the intro speaks of the painting as a defacement. And later when I got home I watched some youtube videos that referred to the murals as a ""rape"" of the house. So it was weird that in the scene where he paints them, corbusier mostly seems like he is just vibing so hard that he gets in the mood to dance naked and paint. It doesn't come off as malicious in the scene, but everything I read both in the intro and online said it was a very intentional slight to both Elileen and the house. I have never liked Corbusier ever since a class I took junior year, so I am absolutely not defending him, I am more struck by the almost nonchalant scene when it's pretty explicit in the intro and public memory how fucked up it was. Though maybe the fact that it was such a meaningless/thoughtless action to paint on something that she had worked so hard on is the whole point.  this book put Corbusier's drowning in such a weird point in the story. That could've been included at a different time for greater effect. But maybe that would be leaning a bit too much into ""the house had its revenge""? Idk I would have found that narratively satisfying especially since it really happened.  Though this particular Graphic novel had a lot of flaws and the dialogue was odd, I learned about someone I had never heard of. The point was to learn about a queer woman whose work was always overshadowed by men, and it succeeded!  Can anything be new and exciting these days? I watched a house tour on Youtube of e1027 and this house looks brand new and very contemporary to me. Crazy that it is almost 100 years old! I could see this house being in the background of a Vogue 73 questions while some lengthy celebrity walks around trying not to look scripted"
3245	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	This seemed more like a mood piece and didn't seem to do justice to the subject other than to whet one's appetite to learn more, but still didn't reveal a lot about Eileen Gray. Just as it was starting to pick up, it ended. I liked the pencil drawing. I feel this could have been a much better vehicle for telling Gray's story.
3247	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	“Memories cling to things so it’s better to start anew.”  I really enjoyed this beautifully illustrated graphic novel/biography depicting fragments of Eileen Gray’s life, particularly her Modernist masterpiece E-1027.  Having very little knowledge about the designer before reading, I’ve come away wanting to learn lots more. She clearly had a wonderful eye for interiors and felt quietly passionate about connecting living space to its human inhabitants, reflecting their need for flexibility and growth.  What I blindly didn’t expect was her connection to the 1920s Left Bank scene in Paris, nor did I know she frequented Natalie Barney’s salon (I honestly didn’t know a thing about her!). It was really beautiful how I heard of her work on a radio programme unbeknownst to her private life and she ended up being woven into lesbian/sapphic history, I’m really looking forward to researching her further and was thankful for the reading list at the end of the book.  As far as providing great detail about her life, this book isn’t the place to go; but for a gorgeously visual journey to quench an initial intrigue, it did the job perfectly.
3250	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	"I almost never read graphic novels, so I don't really have much of a frame of reference for this book, but I was definitely intrigued by Eileen Gray's story, and I thought this was a cool way to tell it. My only gripe is that I didn't always feel I got as much a sense of Gray's interiority as I wanted to. I often wondered ""what is she thinking at this moment?"" I wasn't sure whether this was intentional on the authors' part (were they making a point about the men in Gray's life speaking for her, or indicating that she was quiet?) or whether this was a missed opportunity. The drawings themselves are nothing spectacular, but I did really enjoy the way the authors used the page, and the interplay between text and image, in many cases. Overall, definitely worth a read for anyone interested in architecture and feminist art history."
3251	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Wow, what a kick in the pants! Just a few hours ago I was on the phone with a friend grumbling about how the narrative thread of this graphic novel was unclear and that a lot of biographical BD have this problem of dumping vignettes on the reader without a clear sense of why. Now I've just emerged from a googling session about the house, Eileen Gray, her works, her circle of friends in Paris, Le Corbusier... I've got YouTube vids to watch, a 2015 film, several books added to my TBR. So this book did its job damnit!  If you don't want to read it, but you can get your hands on a copy, i urge you to check out pgs 50-51, 90-91, and 100-101, just to get a feel for how important and revolutionary Ms Gray was, and the passion behind this project (both E-1027 and the graphic novel!)
3252	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	The book doesn't quite function as a biography because it gives fragmented views into parts of Eileen Gray's life, without really covering her roles and personality in more detail. The illustrations, however, are extremely captivating and the colours used help segregate the sub contents of the book. I would recommend it to anyone who is looking to know more about the architectural aspects of E.1027 because the page composition of that particular section includes a lot of architectural references. However, I wouldn't recommend this book to individuals wanting to know more about Eileen Gray's life, since this text gives only a brief overview. 
3253	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Definitely not the easiest to follow for someone who doesn't already know about Eileen Gray.  However, I do think this graphic novel is interesting and in many ways infuriating for women artists not given the proper respect, acknowledgement, or due attention (well until they are dead artists of course, but that is not uncommon regardless of gender).  Corbusier's actions are horrifying and despicable, wanting all of the attention for himself and overshadowing Gray.  The book is beautiful even if I did come out wanting more. More about her relationships, more about her work in lacquer, but c'est la vie.
3254	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	I picked up this book in the library, and I thought that a graphic text is an excellent medium for learning about the work of an architect because I could see a building that might be hard for me to picture without knowing the vocabulary. The story is a bit confusing because it jumps around and I don't know who the people are, but in the end, I like the impressionistic approach. The end of the book brings clarity, and since it is a quick read, there is time for a second or third read, which to me, is the whole point of graphic literature.
3257	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	E-1027 is a house built by Eileen Gray for her lover, Romanian architect Jean Badovici, in Roquebrune-Cap-Martin, France. E-1027 is nowadays a historical monument and can be visited. Encouraged by Jean, Eileen designed the house of their dreams and supervised its construction from 1926 till 1929. “I want you to design a little refuge for us.” “Jean, I don’t know if I can do that. I’m not an architect.” “You are much more than that, you are a visionary!”
3258	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	I’m glad that this exists or I would have never heard about this woman and her historic accomplishments. I love women’s history graphic novels. Also, it seriously burns my toast when men try to steal the credit that belongs to women. That being said, I felt like this particular book had a lot of atmosphere, but not a lot of story. A nice (& quick) read, but left feeling like I didn’t know her story as well as I had hoped I would at the end.
3260	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Hmm. I'm stumped. This graphic novel adaptation of Eileen Gray and her E-1027 modernist home was very engaging, and the art reminded me of water color at times. The problem was that I felt I was reading half, or even a third, of a book. It felt unfinished, very rushed, with no precise ending. I wanted more! 
3262	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	They sure didn't teach me this about Corb in architecture school...  A beautiful work examining someone who had the audacity to speak against the machine forms of Le Corb's vision of Modernism, and dared do so while being a woman. Very cool - glad the structure and her legacy were not totally lost.
3263	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	It’s a graphic novel about an architect who was not previously well known. It’s like a comic book and though it’s an interesting and unique way to tell her story I found it difficult to follow and just didn’t get it.
3264	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	I had not heard of this modernist architect. This biography mostly was concerned with the E-1027 structure and related history. There are enough nuggets to whet ones curiosity to further learn of her life and works.
3267	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	A soft and poetic narrative which traces the life of one of the most brillant modernist designer and architect, Eileen Gray. The drawings are amazing, the story juggles over times, the whole book pays a great tribute. 
3268	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	I liked the art but didn't understand why the house is so special or why it was so offensive to have Le Corbusier's murals added. Though the book is titled after the house, it's more of a general biography.
3269	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Fantastic!! I very rarely read graphic novels but I happened to pick this up and what meant to be skim through lead to a very fascinating read. It was like I was sucked into this book and lost all sense of reality irl. 
3272	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	A beautiful, yet occasionally hard to follow comic about Eileen Gray, modernist architect, whose story had been obscured, purposefully, over time, by men.
3273	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Very pretty and atmospheric but probably hard to follow if you don’t already know some things about the folks involved 
3274	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	The life of Eileen Gray, focusing on E-1027, the first house she designed.  She was an artist, a lacquer maker, and an interior designer.
3276	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Beautiful illustrations, albeit short on the narrative. Feels like a good appetiser, leaving the reader wanting to find out more about the artist portrayed.
3278	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	A lovely glimpse into the life of artist architect Eileen Gray, with a focus on her house E-1027. 
3279	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Beautifully illustrated, interesting story. Too bad she didn't get the recognition she deserved when she was younger - the tragedy of many women. 
3281	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Would like to see what she made and sad how life was/is for talented women. Great piece! 
3283	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Le Corbusier was such a great architect that he felt compelled to take credit even for things that he did not design or build. Fu(k that guy!  This book is wonderful!
3284	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Beautiful depiction of a previously untold story, but felt a little short/left me wanting more information and details though. Loved the artwork
3285	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Disjointed timeline; beautiful illustrations about a designer whose furniture is still recognizable. I was not familiar with her name and life. A woman ahead of her time.
3286	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	I really enjoyed the illustrations in this graphic novel. 
3288	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	cute lesbian house
3289	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Delightful graphic novel for people already in the know of Eileen Gray's immense talent. Not a bio, exactly, but delightful all the same.  
3290	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	This book is structured like memory. A handful of conversations, a few days, are what we have build a life from. 
3293	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	Love it. I already read it many times
3294	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	The artwork was beautiful in this graphic novel. However, I would have liked more background information on Eileen Gray. As someone who has no knowledge of architecture or famous ones, I would of enjoyed some details and facts about the topic. Overall though, enjoyable and intriguing.
3295	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	The things we do to be taken seriously, hmm?
3296	Eileen_Gray:_A_House_Under_the_Sun	A million stars for the illustrations. Some of the compositions are so beautifully inventive and surprising. The writing however leaves much up to the reader to piece together and derive meaning from. I would've loved if there was some text with background information between chapters just to add more historical narrative, as I wasn't very familiar with Eileen Gray's story beforehand!
3297	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Start by listening to some of this as you read and tell me you won't spend time reading this book and listening to blues as I did, all through it.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yd60n...  Now, are you comfortable? Next step is to just look at some of the artwork by Mezzo that you find on every page of this biography of the American Blues artist Robert Johnson by J. M. Dupont:  https://www.google.com/search?q=Rober...  The book is short, more poetic and evocative than it is a biographical narrative, choosing to focus on images of him driven by his love of women and whiskey, and especially, music. He's the guy who sold his soul to the devil to become maybe the greatest blues guitarist of all time.  This is a pretty great book, drawn in the manner of black and white woodcut prints from a century ago. Gotta read it. Here, sorry, you wanted to hear more of his music and have me shut up, didn't you?  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=07T3h...
3298	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Love in Vain is a beautifully executed biographical graphic novel that you must have on your TBR list. It recounts the tragic life story of bluesman Robert Johnson. He sadly is the beginning of the 27 club, musicians that died at the age of 27, like Jimmy Hendricks, Jim Morrison, etc. We learn of Johnson's humble beginnings and his many attempts to sing and play the guitar. He was very tenacious and he improved with the help of other well-known bluesman of that time. I can't not speak about this graphic novel without mentioning the splendid artwork. Drawn and colored entirely in black ink, you are not likely to forget his story. The drawings perfectly depict juke joints and black people during the thirties. Check out my video review where you can get a sneak peak inside the book: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5IAqM...
3299	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	  The artwork by Mezzo is gorgeous and frameable. The text by J.M. Dupont is embarrassing at best (I suspect the translation doesn’t do it any favors), and at worst leering and lascivious in a borderline racist way. I suppose that’s to be expected when a white Frenchman tries to write a rhyming(?) biography of a Black Delta bluesman from the POV of  the Devil himself.  I learned a few new biographical details about Robert Johnson, at least. And again, that art.  
3300	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	After reading the fantastic White Tears by Hari Kunzru I went into a sort of Delta blues soundcloud and started listening to all sorts of haunting tracks from the 1930s. At about the same time I spied this graphic novel in a bookshop and it just seemed to be calling me. The story of legendary bluesman Robert Johnson's short life illustrated in beautiful woodcut graphic style by French graphic artist Mezzo.  It's just such a beautiful book to look at, I am a big fan of woodcuts and this book has some splendid examples of that style. The accompanying text gives a passable account of Robert's life (from what is known)  however I suspect some nuance might have been lost in the translation from French as the text was a little awkward at times especially when it tried to clumsily rhyme. Also, I am not sure why we needed the final panel about the Hells Angels and the Rolling Stones at Altamont in 1969.  However, it's a lovely book and I appreciated that it included the lyrics to several of Johnsons songs. The experience of reading this is definitely enhanced by listening to the recordings.
3301	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Again, a biographical graphic novel. Why this got five stars is that I loved the twist in the tale concerning the narrator's voice. And also the drawings are amazing: they are very dark and almost look like woodcut prints which give them a kind of physical texture and aspect.
3304	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Weird occasionally rhyming text but absolutely beautiful graphics. And a really useful Line through Johnson's convoluted and disputable biography. I really liked this. 
3305	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	The illustrations make this book. A creative way to tell the legendary story of the life of Robert Johnson.
3307	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Rather exceptional, especially in the art work, telling of Johnson's story. FAR better than many of the bog standard music / comic biogs.
3309	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Dupont and Mezzo may have hit on the best way to tell Robert Johnson’s story. Part of what makes him “Robert Johnson” is the vague boundaries that drift around the facts of his life. I’d even be a bit disappointed to find that somewhere, somehow there were a definitive factual biography. The facts would be untrue to the Robert Johnson we conjure in talking about the history of the blues.  The book is as much visual art as textual story, as a graphic treatment should be. The story is told in words against a visual background that lends the words a kind of just-right slipperiness they wouldn’t have on their own. The art work is striking, heavy black and white. The depiction of Johnson’s pinstripe suit jumps out of the pages, contributing to that not quite real effect.  Dupont, the author of the text, wrote the story around the pivot of religion, Johnson’s mythological choice to ally with the devil. But he doesn’t just treat it, like I’ve seen elsewhere, as a personal bargain with the devil for supernatural guitar skills. It’s a framework for the whole story — Johnson’s divorce from the church-infused side of the blues and of black culture during his time. He plays on the other side, in the other places, and hangs out with the other people. It’s where his music flourishes, and it’s where he meets his quick ending. And again, you see it in the artwork behind the story as it’s told.  It might only take a half hour to read the book — it goes by quickly, kind of like Johnson’s life. But the art is so good, and the text so haunting that I know I’ll dip back into it now and then just for a quick hit.  Lyrics for Johnson’s better known songs are included at the back of the book, along with an illustration for each. The illustrations are, like all the illustrations in the book, not literal. They evoke the mood of the songs. Really good. 
3310	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	"The artwork here is absolutely gorgeous. It could probably tell Robert Johnson's life story on its own without any words. And yes, I played Robert Johnson recordings while reading it. What else? I bought this book at Copenhagen Comics 2019 from the Fahrenheit booth. I bought it simply because it was so beautiful. I see the graphic layout is by H. Christian Vang. The storyline is so-so. Not sure how much is fact and how much is confabulation, but I am sure the general idea is true. I don't think it is written for historical accuracy, but for the love of the blues.  I skimmed some reviews before writing my own. Apparently the original French version was written in rhyme and that doesn't seem to have gone down well. I am glad that wasn't done in the Danish version I read. I am not quite sure who the narrator is. Is it Dupont? Is it the Devil? Is it... Eric Clapton or Mick Jagger? That is not a spoiler. You know there are many famous musicians who owe a whole lot to a lot Black musicians who probably came quite close to literally selling their souls to the devil to survive in the first decades of the 1900s. The narrator seems to enjoy Robert Johnson's rough lifestyle, which is technically rather misogynist, as are some of his song texts. Was it just the way life was back in those days?  Interesting to learn that perhaps some of Robert Johnson's musical genius was passed on to Robert Lockwood, Jr., the son of a woman Johnson lived with for a while, and who went on to become a musician in his own right.  It's interesting reading this short story to get a tiny glimpse of the big story that is the ""Great Migration"". (Google it.) Now that I have read the story, I can see me taking this book out now and then just to admire the artwork by Mezzo (Pascal Mesemberg)."
3311	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	"UK translated = 2014 = £20.00  The art is utterly fascinating  The horizontal/panorama presentation wraps you in deep darkness to savor the glow of such exclusive illumination- the attention to and exposition of detail is sometimes shocking.  There must have been intimately dedicated photo-study at play here with such meticulous rendering perfections filling every panel out completely with unsparingly lavished ink while including detail down to minute background signage.  Then there's the superimpositioning that bullseyes your eyes from target-to-target throughout the panels like the most beautiful shooting gallery I've ever seen!  The story is also a definitive *****: Gripping Gasping Woeful Tantalizing and Spiritual.  To my tastes, the only scuff on this gem is the narration style which has an annoying cheekiness to it. The writer didn't need the ""character"" narrator angle taken which often distracts or detracts from the story."
3312	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	One of the most gorgeous comics I’ve ever picked up. If you’re a fan of old blues folklore, music, or black and white comics, this is the one for you.  It’s a quick read, but the storytelling is fantastic. Not your average bio comic.  Even though I read it pretty quick, I found myself flipping back through the book over and over again, pouring over the meticulously drawn black and white pages. Every single panel is a masterpiece and there are so many new things to find in each panel. This isn’t just a comic, it’s an art book that you can place on your coffee table for others to ponder and admire.  
3314	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	"The artwork here is incredible - stark, black-and-white drawings that could be framed woodcuts on a museum wall. The storytelling is interesting - the devil poetically recounts the life of Robert Johnson, that famed bluesman who sold his soul at the crossroads. I was less enamored with the level of detail used by the author in relaying Johnson's biography. Endless pages of ""Johnson went here, banged a woman, played a song."" I mean, sure, maybe that was his actual life, but you could spice it up a little with some creative non-fiction."
3315	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	This is a masterpiece as far as I'm concerned. Each panel is like a little work of art. We learn or are reminded that the 30s was a pretty wild time and pretty rough. We generally think of sex drugs and rock n roll starting in the 60s with hints in the 50s, but Johnson and his peers were singing about sex, drugs and violence in the 30s and bawdy music has been around for ages but it's not revered, it's not high culture. Just like when people reject comics as low culture, when people disregard the blues, they miss out on the profound emotion and art within
3317	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Phenomenal drawings in this biography about blues artist Robert Johnson in the early 20th century. Each page is a true piece of art, wonderful! You can read this book knowing nothing about Robert Johnson, but just put up some of his tunes and read the book... You are transported to the South, to Mississippi, and can enjoy this book to the fullest. Highly recommended.
3318	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Dupont and Mezzo’s darkly sensual portrait of Johnson life is described by an unnamed narrator whose identity is only revealed at the end. Johnson’s short life and large legend and legacy are the perfect source material for this treatment. Author and artist execute it marvelously in all its sad, exuberant, and earthy details. 
3319	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	This is a beautiful book. There are a lot of tales about Robert Johnson; unlike other authors, Dupont does not get lost in the various stories while acknowledging that history is murky on Johnson. The random rhyming that was not a lyric was a little distracting but not detrimental to the storytelling. The art is gorgeous and dynamic. Lovely, high quality book, here, folks.
3322	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	The drawings are really something and make this short graphic novel about the mythical bluesman well worth a look, but I found the storytelling lacking.
3326	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	As a fan of blues music, I had to pick up this book. Robert Johnson's story is marked by pain, sex, alcohol, and faith in himself and his skills. This is the story of a man who influenced many later musicians. Let's focus on the comics. I like the format - wider than higher. Illustrations differ from other comics. The artist used a lot of black, which gives the impression of a small amount of detail but a lot of unknown. I think it fits the atmosphere of the story. The narrative leaves a little to be desired. Mixing the language suitable for the release and English does not do the job. Overall I had a lot of fun and would recommend the book to anyone wanting to learn more about Robert.
3327	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	I liked the illustrations, which represented the north and south so well - really set the scene and mood for Robert Johnson's sad life. I also liked that the text included a 'songbook' at the end. However, the inconsistent rhyming sometimes felt forced. The excessive detail also was, at times, distracting from the narrative - so many names without context. There was also a twist at the end that seemed to fall flat.
3333	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Another book I was able to read in less than 24 hours!  This was pretty interesting. The narration was delightful, the art was fantastic (I never knew that a cornfield could look so striking in black and white), and I loved the addition of the song lyrics in the back.
3335	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	I had no clue who is Robert Johnson. Luckily salesman at the Comic book festival marketed it nice to me and I buy this. Always a pleasure reading a fine graphic novel to me. After reading I find myself listening to some blues and grief about the artist.
3336	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Lyrical & visually stunning homage that pays tribute to a legendary man.
3337	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	great art work!!
3339	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Brilliant, beautiful, and brown. I wish it were more blue. I didn't feel the sadness, longing, and blues that Robert Johnson must have felt when he played those songs from the book.
3340	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Exceptionally illustrated graphic chronicle of the life and music of blues legend Robert Johnson. Originally published in France. 
3341	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Haunting and lush illustrations pair well with the spare but impressively researched text. 
3342	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Great artwork and a good set-up with the narrator and the twist at the end; but the subject is ultimately just yet another man behaving badly and getting away with it, for a while.
3343	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Hauntingly beautiful illustrations, admittedly modeled after master illustrator Robert Crumb, capture the fleeting highs and lows of Robert Johnson.
3344	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	When you read this you should have a drink or two and listen to the Stones version of “Love in Vain”.
3346	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Decent graphic novel about the life of Robert Johnson. I'd heard most of these facts before, but there were some interesting details I didn't know. The artwork was beautiful. 
3347	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Amazing artwork telling the incredible story of Robert Johnson. Each page a piece of art. Absolutely recommend for anyone who loves art, comics, music, aka everyone :o)
3351	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	beautiful drawings, clever storytelling, informative biography. A bit creepy, but appropriate, I suppose. 
3357	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	The art is gorgeous.
3359	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Fantastic illustrations, dreamy layout, and a nicely personal narrative voice.
3360	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Robert Johnson is one of the most enigmatic and fascinating legends in the canon of popular music. However, the reason for this is mostly that he is indeed more of a myth than a formerly living person, as most we know of him is only stories with more air than substance to them. This makes him a both effective character to a comic book bio and at the same time troublesome.  Dupont and Mezzo make a valiant job in turning Johnson's tale into a graphic novel or an album. The fifty black & white pages recall legends from before Johnson was born in early parts of the 20th century American South to his twenty-second year when he passed away. In between the authors describe his music, womanizing, boozing, and spirit, but also try to offer reasons for his bad habits. However, the choices of words, emphasises and nefarious narrator let the reader know they are more in it for the fun of the myth rather than tell a story differing much from the usual Johnson tale.  Among Johnson's life events the author's add stories about his contemporaries in the field of Southern blues, which are distracting for most parts. Without them, of course, the fairly concise album would be even shorter. This might not, in fact, be a bad consequence: now the book works visually best on the bigger screen which are like a series of paintings of Robert's life. At times the episodic feel where the screens are not exactly connected, but jump from one place to another, makes one think that an illustrated novella, where the journey would have only been helped by an occasional visual might have been a better medium than the current one.  
3361	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	The legendary and somewhat mysterious blues singer and guitarist Robert Johnson died almost eighty years ago, leaving behind a hugely influential stock of less than 30 recordings. Jean-Michel Dupont's graphic novel on Johnson's life is a vastly different, and tongue-in-cheek look back at his short tenure on earth. While there are some facts attached to Robert Johnson's life and musical career there are also many myths and outright guesses about him. Among them the proposition that Johnson somehow went from being a journeyman guitarist to a dead-set virtuoso within a year. Hence the often references to him meeting the Devil at the Crossroads somewhere in deepest Mississippi and selling his soul in return for the guitar-playing that we hear from the three recording sessions he participated in.  Dupont's story mixes and matches the myths and the known facts to capture the essence of the bluesman who influenced everyone from Muddy Waters to Keith Richards and Eric Clapton. As a multi decade fan of Robert Johnson's music I found the book and the story interesting without adding anything significant to the legend. So, some fun because of the graphic novel presentation and hopefully it will also open the door to a new generation of fans to his music.
3364	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Robert Johnson had an interesting life story, and they've clearly done their research (and the art is mostly great). The inclusion of plenty of mundane detail actually works as being more fascinating than the legend. But the way our obviously Miltonian narrator plays so coy, and rhymes what feels like half his lines, can feel a bit too previous. Either do it all in verse or non in verse (although I also accept this may have been a translation problem). Nice to look at and I enjoy the lyrics pages in the back, but that narrative voice just needed to be less irksome.
3365	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Beautiful art with story that really struck an emotional chord for me somewhere in the middle of it. I didn't know anything about Robert Johnson, but I loved learning about him in graphic novel form for sure. Definitely made me want to read more about him. 
3368	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	"""Love in vain"" or how to tell the amazing life of the famous blues musician Robert Johnson with pictures and lyrics. The reader should listen to the artist's music before or / and after the book to get into the mood for this journey..."
3369	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	First off the art in this is just stunning! However, I found it a bit frustrating not having anything cited, leaving the reader to wonder the relevance of the quote. Perhaps this book is supposed to be a supplement to his actual Bio?
3370	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	A graphic retelling of the musician Robert Johnson's brief life story told through some of the more stunning art I've ever seen used in a graphic novel. Unfortunately for the art, I found the narrative let this one down a lot and the story was disjointed in places and confused in others. 
3371	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Aesthetic beauty
3373	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Well done storytelling of Robert Johnson's disturbing short life.
3374	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Gorgeous artwork is the main draw here.
3375	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	beautifully done. sexual content. the opening chapters with the tale of slavery and how family units were broken up. 
3376	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	This comic was discussed in The Secret Stacks Episode 30.
3377	Love_in_Vain:_Robert_Johnson_1911-1938	Graphic book about the life of Robert Johnson. Originally written in French, but I read the English translation. The artwork is amazing.
3378	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	This was a really thorough and interesting biography about an incredibly fascinating woman.  I realized while reading this that I was always aware of “Calamity Jane” and that she was inextricably linked with cowboys and the old west, but I never actually knew *anything* about her. Perrissin reveals to readers the complex inner life of this elusive woman, starting from her teens (when she abandoned her siblings, supposedly to get money to help support them), to adulthood (following her rise to infamy), and eventually old age. It’s a really complete picture - highlighting all the admirable traits of Jane’s character along with her very glaring flaws - without being too weighted down by facts and timelines (though there is A LOT of font/writing - this is not a short read!)  It’s clear Perrissin is enthusiastic about his subject when you consider the amount of research that must have gone into this work. He quotes from a number of primary sources and has an extensive bibliography at the end of the book, giving readers who want to dig deeper lots of resources with which to do so. While Perrissin rarely imposes his voice and/or assumptions in the text, he does make note when there are gaps in the collective pool of knowledge on Jane. I personally prefer when authors hold back on imposing themselves in these types of works and let the subject speak for itself - this balance is struck very well here, in my opinion.  The art is sketchy, with washes of grey and sepia. It suits the atmosphere of the time period and locale perfectly. My only complaint is that, due to the sketchy art, it was sometimes hard to discern people’s faces. There was often other distinguishing features to help readers from confusing people, but this wasn’t always the case. Other than that, I have no complaints, really.  Overall, I really liked this! It was dense but fascinating and I feel like I learnt a lot without feeling like I was being subjected to a boring history lesson. I wouldn’t recommend this to everyone, but if you have any interest in the Wild West or biographies on badass women, you should seriously consider picking this one up. 
3379	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	When I read biographies, I'm hoping for insight into a real person or context for why this person's life is important to know. Unfortunately, this long, long graphic novel mostly offers up a string of events that coheres to inform only that Calamity Jane was a habitual liar and alcoholic. Indeed, even the string of events offered has to be asterisked as possibly false, as they are based on sources created mostly by the prevaricator in question herself, and contradictions abound.  The dusty dry narration and scratchy art do little to make the reading experience pleasurable.
3380	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	What can I say about this masterpiece?  Can Christian Perrissin please write something like that for other people from the Old West? Like Jesse James? Please? Pretty please?!  I loved this!  If you're a fan of the old west it's a must. If you're a fun of Calamity Jane then DUH!  This pretty much sums up Calamity's life since she was a kid until the end of her life. THIS is how they should make biographies in comics. That's it. I loved every single bit of it. Even the ones I thought I wouldn't like or get bored. No. They were so nicely written that you don't get bored at all.  The artwork. The art in this one is SO good. I don't know how many times I was looking at the simplicity of the artwork but being amazed by how awesome it was.  Had some minor problems with it, where I'd basically look at a photograph of a huge bridge or something like that in the middle of the page and it was super obvious that it wasn't drawn.. but it wouldn't bother me THAT much.. though come to think of it, I'm mentioning it so yeah.. whenever I'd see something like that I'd be like.. whyyy... boredom I guess? Time? Dunno!  Anyway, besides that, the artwork is simply great for the theme of the story and everything. I'd love to read anything drawn by Matthieu Blanchin!  The story was not making you sleep or stall while reading something else in the meantime after chapter and whatnot (which I usually do) and that was amazing! The fact that it had a lighter tone in it, and it was somewhat funny at times, it worked really well, because Martha Jane had to go through a LOT of dark shit to get by and to survive like most of people back then, so that didn't make it too dark of a story or depressing which it really was with everything that was happening back then.  Love it and would definitely recommend to anyone who's a fan of the old west!
3381	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	How much do you know about Calmity Jane? Do you confuse her with Annie Oakley? Was she at the Battle of Little Big Horn? Did she really merry Wild Bill Hickok?  This graphic novel tries to answer the questions about her life, but she was apparently a good story teller, and much of what we know of her comes from letters she wrote to her daughter, but never sent. The authors used documents that were as close to the sources as they could, since Calimity Jane had many things written about her while she was alive, dime store novels, her own tall tales, that were simply not true. The authors admit that it is hard to figure out what truly happened, but that they are trying to come close, and still tell a good story.  One thing that I didn't realize is that she only dressed and acted as a man in the beginning, and after that, she dressed in pants, but was known to be a woman.  Interesting read, interesting story of an unusual woman.   
3382	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	"Incredibly compelling ""biography"" of a legendary woman. I did quite a bit of reading online to try to get at what was fact and what was legend, but as the author intimates, it is actually pretty difficult. And so Perrissin has created a love letter of sorts to Jane, and effectively brings along the reader. I cried when she saw her daughter after all those years and then had to part with her all too soon. I would rank this up there with Chester Brown's Louis Riel. It was hard to put it down."
3383	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	An absolutely charming and extremely well- executed book that manages to portray the subject in a sympathetic light while not glossing over the more unsavory details of her life.
3385	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	"The woman was mad, indubitably mad. Also drunk much of the time. Not willing to take responsibility for anything but herself, an inveterate story teller, and someone who couldn't really get along with people. Was her first daughter Wild Bill Hickok's child? What happened to her third child, Jessie? How much did her drinking affect the health of the little boy who lived only a few weeks? There appears to be very little information about her life save what was told to others. One interview during which she admitted she hadn't been a scout for Custer, but only a mule skinner seems to indicate more of what her life really consisted of. Otherwise the authors must have relied on police records for the number of times she was ""drunk in public"", ""drunk and disorderly"", ""damaging property while drunk"" and so on, although those records also indicate where she was. She left her siblings behind in Salt Lake City and appears never to have checked back on them or even thought of them until she met her brother Cy before the Battle of the Little Bighorn. He lit into her and she had very little explanation. He died during the battle, of course, while she was elsewhere recovering from pneumonia (for a change). She gave her first child, Janey, to a Richmond couple, although that seems to have caused her some pain since she actually saved up money so that she could visit the child in her new family and kept the secret afterward as to her parenting. The baby boy appears to have been premature (not surprising given her background) and his death was part of the reason she broke up with his father. Jessie, her third child, would seem to have been left at the convent school she attended for the nuns to look after. She couldn't seem to settle down and no one knew what to make of her. She was egalitarian as far as people's ethnic origins were concerned except for the Indian nations. She was certainly racist there and had no qualms at all about tearing up treaties and stomping through sacred lands. The art work is in black and white and very lively. It is to be noted that the publishers put a Parental Advisory notice on the back of the book below the ISBN. There is certainly a great deal of nudity and crude language. The crude language would be expected since so much of her life was spent near army posts and saloons. The author has avoided suggestions that she was wildly promiscuous but she certainly didn't have trouble finding sexual partners and didn't worry about marriage except where Bill Hickok was concerned. The book covers the intrusions into the Black Hills, the Battle of the Little Bighorn, the building of the railways across the Plains and the gold rushes. Martha Jane definitely lived in interesting times and this book just gallops along through it all."
3386	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Calamity Jane: The Calamitous Life of Martha Jane Cannary is an attempt at a biography of this mysterious woman. A quick google search shows that her life is the subject of a lot of controversy, so who knows exactly what in these pages is true. However, Perrissin does try to take a less Disneyified approach to this woman's life. Calamity was a hard woman who lived a hard life. She travelled, worked jobs that paid poorly, and was an alcoholic. Whatever the truth of her years is, this book probably nailed at least a lot of the appropriate sentiment. 
3387	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	I knew the name Calamity Jane but nothing much about her so when I saw this had been nominated for an Eisner I picked it up. This is a French biography, translated into English, and leisurely tells the colorful story of the frontier rider. She was many things apparently but all them to spoke a fierce independence, making her an unlikely feminist role model.  She was left to raise her siblings when her parents died and effectively abandoned them (their fates are barely touched on here) to go off on her own at 15. Her adventures are tinged with bouts of depression which seemed to fuel her alcoholism, which helped cut her life short.  The monochromatic artwork is nicely effective although the art itself is a tad crude for my taste and facial emotions are somewhat obscured, as are moments of storytelling. Still, the story is well told and we get enough context to understand her place in the development of the west in the 19th century.  There are precious few verified details about her life and controversy over the authenticness of the letters Jane wrote to her first daughter that form the bulk of the story. Times, dates, specific events, and more cannot be proven so this book is one version of the story while other biographies differ so read this and enjoy it, but know there is much unknown about its veracity.
3388	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	*read for the YA Reading Challenge 20202*  This was a far more interesting biography than I would have thought going into it and I really enjoyed it! Christian Perrissin feels really invested in Martha Jane and her story. I totally get that as I'm generally a huge of of the larger-than-life characters from the American west/frontier. There is something really fascinating about what it took to both brave and survive that world and here we're presented with Jane's own truly unbelievable account of her live and the sadder, more tragic version of the tales history can actually back up.  The art in this book reminded me of something I can't exactly place my finger on. It's reminiscent of Lone Wolf and Cub, but not quite the same. It's a soft sort of watercolor or ink wash look that, for me anyway, really matched the feel of the story. It was a good pairing at any rate that I felt helped the storytelling.  This feels like a longer graphic novel, but because it's a linear look at her life I didn't mind. It is pretty dense, but it never exhausted me. It was more a problem with my availability to sit and read at anytime that made this take as long. I found it to be a page-turner.
3389	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	"4 stars for the illustrations. The sepia tone of the line drawings adds to the historical feel of the book. Quite beautifully done.  The narrative is take from 3 biographies of Calamity Jane. One text is the copy of her own letters to her ""daughter"". No one knows how factual the stories actually are.  Still it is all very interesting."
3390	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Incredible story told with loving compassion and perfect artwork. Who knows what the truth is about this woman? After reading this graphic novel, this is the only version of her story that you’ll want to know.
3391	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	The authors did an excellent job in bringing the historical figure of Calamity Jane to life. I absolutely enjoyed reading this, but I gave it a lower rating because of the inaccuracy of some very basic facts. Of course we don't know the truth about much of Calamity Jane's life, but we do know the fate of Jack McCall, the man who shot and killed Wild Bill Hickok. The authors tell us that McCall was put on trial in Deadwood, found not guilty, and left for Wyoming where he was never heard from again. It's well documented, though, that McCall was tried again for the murder of Wild Bill. The government decided his first trial didn't count because Deadwood was an illegal settlement and didn't have a legal court system. He was tried again in Yankton (SD), found guilty, and executed - the first person to be executed by U.S. government officials in Dakota Territory. He's buried in Yankton, but the exact location of his grave is unknown.
3392	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	"Christian Perrissin offers more stories about Calamity Jane than you ever wanted to know. Seriously, this book is dense, and Jane - while certainly a character! - didn't exactly lead the most thrilling life at all times. There's plenty of moping and alcoholism in between the mad romps with Wild Bill Hickok and run-ins with fierce Native American tribes.  It's at least 80% fascinating, though, and Perrissin does deliver a fully-formed person in Jane, particularly when it comes to the daughter she gave up to rich folks out east. Perrissin and Matthieu Blanchin also do an excellent job of fleshing out the ""wild west"" world of the late 1800's, from army outposts to loosely formed frontier towns. I could definitely see this tome being edited down and translated into a thrilling TV mini-series."
3393	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Given how exaggerated and unreliable all the stories about Calamity Jane are, this probably fits about about as comfortably on a biographical fiction shelf as it does on a biography shelf. Based largely on the letters that Martha Jane Cannary supposedly wrote to her daughter (who'd she'd adopted out to a wealthy couple on agreement that she be known in life only as a family friend), which were sent posthumously and therefore, supposedly, more honest than the wild tall tales she told in saloons and shows, Calamity Jane certainly makes for a wild ride across the old west.  Born into a Mormon family that followed the Oregon Trail to Utah only for both parents to die when she was 14, Martha Jane sets sets out disguised as a boy to seek her fortune and avoid becoming a second wife. She soon forgets her five siblings as she finds work first as a laundress and then, again in disguise, accompanying army caravans. From then on she lives openly as a woman, bouncing between jobs on the plains and in soors, and between skirts and pants. After saving the life of Bill Hickok, they supposedly marry and she has his baby, though she eventually (and mournfully) gives the girl up for adoption so they can both have better lives. Alcohol and men take their toll, though between her work on ranches and convoys, and in laundromats and inns, she gets by...always spinning her fabulous tall tales for willing audiences. Age hits her faster than expected, but surprise motherhood and reluctant marriage still can't tie her down: she works for a while in Buffalo Bill's show and sneaks in a few visits to her first daughter. Finally ending up in Deadwood with old friends and her second daughter in school, Jane dies and is buried next to her long-beloved Hickok...though no one's sure they were ever really married.  In water color shades of black and white that suggest old photographs, Perrissin and Blanchin tell as truth the stories that could be totally made up. Though they say they've tried to find the fact in the fiction, there really doesn't seem to be much way of knowing what's true and what's not. They mention this a few times but not, perhaps, as much as the history lover in me might like.  Still, there's no doubt Jane's life was remarkable. Not only did she live openly as a woman in tough jobs, but her very inability to settle down allowed her to bump elbows--or be in places where she could plausibly claim to have bumped elbows--with famous western personalities, and to allow today's storytellers to display the wide range of experiences to be had out west: ranching, army life, wagon trains, brothels, laundromats, hospitals, motherhood, traveling shows big and small... Calamity Jane's life had it all. Including tragedy: death, rape, abusive relationships, alcoholism, stillbirths, children given up for adoption, unhappy marriages, unrequited (possibly imagined) love. I'd like to say Perrissin and Blanchin don't varnish anything, but they did, at one point, seem to suggest that if Jane had known what the U.S. army would eventually do to the Native American population, she wouldn't have worked with them--which just seems absolutely absurd. If nothing else, a job was a job.  Still, they did a great job bringing Jane to larger-than-life. I'm not sure I'll claim to know the truth about her life having read their book, but I can at least claim to know some of her wild stories about it.
3394	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	A long, somewhat meandering but very grounded look at the real life of late 1800s western legend Calamity Jane. Given her proclivity towards myth-building lies, the story uses an interesting format of day-in-the-life dramatization based on a variety of sources between transitional interludes of more objectively fact-based updates on what she was up to and the notable contemporary events in the Western Prairie she spent most of her life traversing.  This is a sympathetic depiction of Jane, but also doesn’t ignore her many glaring faults. She was orphaned by 15 with several younger siblings left in her care and expected to marry an older polygamist Mormon man she cared nothing for. Jane, unable to imagine such a loveless, domestic existence for her restless, independent spirit, leaves it all behind and embarks on a decade or so of hustling all over the Western Prairie, making a name for herself by 30. She does a ton of odd jobs, often doing a decent bit of good, and just as often has to obscure that she’s actually a woman to do them. More than once she’s found out, and the reaction is never kind.  She’s also often in the vicinity of notable happenings, or else close enough to claim she was in the mix. Her brash, lively retellings are charming entertainment in a setting that seems starved for amusement, but also seem to wear out her welcome just as quick. More so, her alcoholism and the unreliability that comes along with it, combined with her mercenary sense of restlessness, lead to much of her life feeling like a series of burned bridges, one misfortune after another. It’s hard to know how many of her problems were simply the self-inflicted result of decades of alcoholism, and how much was the conflict between her constant restlessness and her seeming desire to settle down with someone she truly cared for who would care for her back. Overall, it’s a sad but fascinating story.  The art is an impressionistic eurocomic take on the western, illustrated in dark inks and colored with gray watercolors. It’s pleasantly cartoony and broad at times, but also offers beautiful landscapes interspersed throughout.
3396	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	"Before this book I never really knew anything about Calamity Jane beyond her name and the fact that she was a figure in the history of the Wild West. This graphic novel changed all that, taking us on a detailed journey through her truly calamitous life and clarifying rumor from what we know to be true. It's fascinating to see everything she went through and the jobs she was able to take on, including a few that required her to disguise herself as a man. It's also heartbreaking to read about many of her personal relationships over the years.  Content note: this book is focused on the life of Martha Jane Cannary and sticks to the dominant perspectives of historical events surrounding it. As such, the narrative of Indians as ""savages"" recurs throughout, as what would have been the view of Jane and her cohorts, and is not really unpacked or questioned."
3397	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	The human experience is the basis of many interesting stories. This is definitely the case for the stary of 'Calamity Jane'. I had heard the name Calamity Jane during my youth, together with other famous ones like Wild Bill Hickock, Buffalo Bill et cetera. At the time I didn't reflect on the fact that there was a real life behind the name. This book does a fantastic job of trying to piece together the puzzle that is Martha Jane Cannary's life. What is real, what is exaggeration, what is a humdinger of a lie? While Jane's life is almost to strange to be true, I found the story of the developing American nation just as interesting. Remember,... this is just over a hundred years ago! The book might be a bit long for my taste, but absolutely worth the read. 
3398	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	The French and Belgians have a knack for doing Western comics, which is something I have long been aware of thanks to such great works as Charlier and Giraud's Blueberry and Derib's Buddy Longway among others, but here writer Christian Perrissin and artist Matthieu Blanchin take things a step further by successfully combining the Western comic with the biographical comic, and set to telling a well-researched and highly informative account of the life of Martha Jane Cannary, a.k.a. Calamity Jane. The narrative is told more or less chronologically, with a few ellipsis that are filled in later, and differing accounts are occasionally presented when the historical material calls for it. And the result is highly pleasing.  Blanchin's artwork is very suited to the narrative, and his style and storytelling on more than one occasion reminds me a bit of Will Eisner's, which is high praise coming from me.  The work has been translated into English by Diana Schutz and Brandon Kander, and while I cannot comment on its fidelity to the original, it reads very nicely.  All in all, this is warmly recommended to anyone interested in Calamity Jane, or anyone who wants to read a really good Western comic.
3399	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	I’ve read a few biographical graphic novels. This one didn’t continuously hold my interest, but it was good and depicted a life of someone who made her own path amidst a turbulent west, a patriarchal society, and her own bad decisions and drinking. Based on research including a book of letters Martha “Calamity” Jane Cannery wrote to her daughter, it doesn’t ask for sympathy, nor does it paint a traditional hero - just a woman of the west trying to survive. The art is is done in browns on a nice heavy paper stock that makes it feel old and real. Thanks to the owner of Cape and Cowl Comics in Oakland for recommending it.
3400	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	"Good yarn. I enjoy all things Black Hills' related, Deadwood, etc. I can't comment on how faithful Schutz and Kander's translation is to the original but it feels like Perrissin (El Niño, Cape Horn) has done his research well. Blanchin's art didn't draw me in that much. It felt ""infantile,"" to put it bluntly, like for a small children's book. Also, a couple of aspects weigh against this release in English: its smaller format, the tiny lettering, and its length (it's an omnibus, after all). This may deter potential comic readers from picking this up. Interesting from a historical perspective but not essential reading."
3401	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	One of the finest graphic novels I’ve read. This teleports you to 1850s frontier and moves linearly toward 20th century through Calamity Jane’s life. Oregon Trail, Indians, Bonding women, childbirth and rugged lives of the frontier comes alive with each pencil stroke of the illustrator. I was genuinely surprised to see the authors were not American. Perhaps that’s why they were able to enliven the spirits of the time so vividly. Great great book!
3402	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Ever since I saw the HBO series Deadwood, I've wondered what kind of person Calamity Jane really was. This graphic novel did a fine job doing its best to piece together how Martha Jane Cannary grew up and lived like. Quite an eclectic character that just couldn't seem to settle down is the jist of it, but there's a lot of good stories contained within these pages. A very enjoyable and enlightening read.
3403	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	"I read this for a book challenge. It was ok. The graphic novel is not my favorite genre. I knew nothing about Calamity Jane beyond her name and a vague association with the ""wild, wild west"". Evidently, much about her life isn't known--she was an admitted liar (""storyteller"") and her life is mostly undocumented but the bare outlines are enough--she led a very hard life in which survival alone was a large accomplishment. "
3404	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	"This was a graphic novel depiction of Calamity Jane's life based on the letters she supposedly wrote to her daughter Janey (some people feel Calamity was barely literate) and two biographies. Known to be a great teller of tales, one doesn't know how much of her life was true and how much she made up. Was an interesting and fun adaptation to read and caused me to go down the Google rabbit hole to find out more, and possibly the ""true"" history, about some of the incidences that were presented."
3405	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	A must read, one of the best BD's, translated in English, I've read this decade.  A very well written, thorough biography, with excellent flow, honoring Calamity Jane, with all goods and bads, in every one of the overall 360 pages.  My full review in Greek:  http://www.comicdom.gr/2017/10/25/cal...
3406	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Calamity Jane has become more myth than a factual, historical person. This well-researched and engaging work digs through the myth and reveals the actual person -- and she is nowhere near the sanitized Hollywood version. Martha Jane Cannary is treated respectfully, flaws and all, and finally gets her true story entered into the historical record. Kudos to Mr. Perrissin.
3407	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	via NYPL - Don't bother asking yourself if this book is accurate. Whatever records of Jane's life may have existed are hopelessly bound up in the myths she (and others) propagated about her life. Just enjoy this book for what it is - a compelling, well-drawn story of a complex and tragic woman.
3408	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	An intriguing look at the little known oft-embellished life of Calamity Jane. The pictures do as much if not more of the work as the historical record of giving scope to her tale. It's a fascinating rumination on what could be true. One I will keep on my book shelf.
3409	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Loved how the art and story supported each other. A fascinating person who helps explain the West as it was, and not as it is often portrayed. And the book does a great job of presenting Jane, flaws and all.
3410	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	I really liked this. The art is fantastic. Tells the life of Calamity Jane. Very well told. Keeps the hyperbole to a minimum. Tries to be as close to true as possible. And I don’t think I can stress enough how awesome the art is. Black and white, looks like brush strokes. I really liked it.
3411	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	This is a thoughtful and nuanced portrayal of a complicated and messy woman. I hadn't previously been familiar with the legend of Calamity Jane, and this was a fascinating and sympathetic introduction.
3412	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Low key read like a graphic novel written off of a wikipedia page. I enjoyed it but it felt plagiarized, idk. Expected a bit more facts. The reader never knew when the author took liberties in the storytelling.
3414	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Very good read. I lost some interest when it covered non-Martha Cannary backstory, but I enjoyed the whole book nonetheless.
3415	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	This biographical graphic novel took a legend and humanized her. There is a lot to learn about Calamity Jane and this book made it that much more interesting to do so.
3416	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	A very good illustrated bio on Calamity Jane. She was quite the colorful figure.
3417	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Very dense work: hard to tell whether it would be better to break it into smaller volumes for easier consumption, or if that would cause it to lose cohesion. 
3418	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Hard to follow in places
3420	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	Note: This book contains several graphic depictions of sexual assault.
3422	Calamity_Jane:_The_Calamitous_Life_of_Martha_Jane_Cannary	I read this book in 2 days, I was totally absorbed in it's realistic, gritty depiction of the old west, as well as learning about a colorful character that I knew little about. Her exaggerated stories made it difficult for anyone to pin down what was the actual truth, but the illustrations and the way her story was told was very entertaining. I am getting more of an interest in graphic novels, so if anyone reads this and can recommend some good ones, send them my way!
3424	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	My only point of contention is that you had to know about Clemente in order to follow some of the more nuanced parts of the storyline - still a very good book about a remarkable man. Think the book would have even been more more impactful if a little more of his backstory was looked at in the beginning of the story. 
3425	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I found the art style interesting but felt the author didn't spend nearly enough time on Clemente's career or humanitarian causes. The man helped so many people that MLB gives an award each year in his name to the person who most honors his legacy of helping those in need.
3426	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	While this graphic biography was visually stunning in places, with this nearly sepia tone feel to it images, interesting paneling and a nice mix of text with more traditional comic word balloons and captions, its narrative just wasn't that interesting.  It might be that already well-aware of the life and achievements of Roberto Clemente, this example of telling his story wasn't meant for me, but even if I weren't it seemed very simple and straightforward (and in some places disjointed) re-telling of anecdotes culled from other sources. It did not use the graphic medium as a way to explore the more complex ideas of race and identity that Clemente's story calls on us to consider - the secondary status of Puerto Rican citizens, the contentious relationship between African-Americans and (esp. dark-skinned) Puerto Ricans in the U.S., Clemente's treatment by the Pittsburgh press, who were patronizing and belittling. . . etc. . . Most of all, the lack of almost any Spanish demonstrates Santiago's unwillingness to challenge his readers and the primacy of English by presenting a text that uses the two languages to shift our point of view and reinforce the feeling of outsider status for some readers.  It was okay, but ultimately missed a great opportunity to elevate both the comics and the biography form into something worth talking about and studying.
3427	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	"I had high hopes for this graphic novel-style biography. I love baseball and am a huge fan of Roberto Clemente's. But, I had to work to get through this. The story was hard to follow in many places, even for someone who already knows it. And, although Wilfred Santiago's illustrations are gorgeous, I would often need to concentrate to follow the picture story in the proper order, as sometimes it would be presented vertically, sometimes horizontally across two pages, sometimes horizontally across one page. There were literary themes sprinkled throughout the book, but they never coalesced. I also was surprised how little Spanish was in the book, even as how the Pirates announcers would call him ""Bob"" was emphasized/mocked. Deep questions were raised in a shallow way, then dropped, and that shallowness, more than anything, marred the overall effect of the work."
3428	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Chicago author, quite unique style, trying to capture serious racial, cultural and political issues and the action of baseball... his tragic death is worked through the text in places.... I didn't love it, but found the style interesting, and the text reflects a lot of research.
3429	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	21: The Story of Roberto Clemente is a 180+page hardbound graphic biography by Wilfred Santiago. I picked this up a Hudson Booksellers in the Pittsburgh International Airport in May 2012, but hadn’t gotten around to reading it until now. If you were a fan Roberto Clemente and you have seen him play many time like I have or if you just admire what you have heard or read about him, this will be an enjoyable and worthwhile read for you. It covers Clemente’s childhood in Puerto Rico with his family. It also covers his developing love of baseball, including his time in the minor leagues and then his emerging brilliant career with the Pittsburgh Pirates. I struggled a little with the part covering his childhood/teenaged years. It covers a long period of time and I found it a little hard to understand what the author was trying to convey. I believe these struggles were probably due to the graphic-novel format and a need for brevity. However, this was not a serious flaw. My favorite part of the book dealt with Clemente’s baseball prowess and his time as a Major League Baseball player. It provides information about his early career with the Pirates, the 1960 World Series, the 1971 World Series, his 3,000th hit, and more. I enjoyed those parts very much. The book also includes his courtship with his wife, Vera, and it covers his tragic and heroic death (December 31, 1972) while attempting a humanitarian food delivery to earthquake survivors in Nicaragua. It’s a unique and well-done graphic portrayal of the life of Roberto Clemente. The artwork is excellent and the story is brief, but informative and engaging. BTW: If you want to learn more about Roberto Clemente I highly recommend: Clemente: The Passion and Grace of Baseball’s Last Hero by David Maraniss (see my review on Goodreads)
3430	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	CW: racial slurs, n-word, racism  I liked how history was intertwined into the novel and learning about Roberto's claim to fame and how he was and is an integral part of the MLB as the first Latin American to be inducted into the Hall of Fame. The story felt a little rushed as Roberto's college years are jumped into very quickly and I would've liked to see and read about how he got into baseball as a child, but overall, it was an interesting read and devastating to hear how Roberto passed.
3431	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I'm not one for reading graphic novels so I don't know how this stacks up with others. The story/text is a bit distorted and jumps around. The graphics are great at times. To see the best graphic, you have to take off the dust cover to see the stunning graphic that wraps around the book. Even with it's faults, it is a must for any Clemente fan's library.
3432	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	"Somewhat disjointed and jumpy graphic novel about baseball great, Roberto Clemente, his childhood growing up in Puerto Rico and his slow rise to prominence with the Pittsburgh Pirates. What's included is powerful stuff; the death of his sister in a fire, his compassion and integrity and the struggles he endured in the days before professional athletes were paid astronomical salaries. There are a few moments where you just sit and reflect and go, ""Whoa!"" (Some examples: when Clemente first went to spring training in Florida, none of the black players could eat at any of the restaurants or coffee shops with the white players. In 1960, when the Pirates were in the World Series, Clemente was still living in a rooming house in Pittsburgh in a single room and didn't even have a car; Clemente had to ask permission to ""court"" his future wife back in Puerto Rico, in the mid-1960s when he was the National League MVP.) Of course, we all know how the story ends. Clemente dazzles the baseball universe by his brilliant play in the 1971 World Series, then gets his 3,000th hit on the last day of the 1972 season, only to be tragically lost when his plane carrying relief supplies for the earthquake victims in Nicaragua disappears on New Year's Eve. Clemente was truly a great player and man, and his loss if deeply felt. David Marranis wrote a great biography about him that covers all of this in much greater detail."
3433	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Beautiful artwork but dull writing. I will go look up Clemente but this was not a graphic novel I'd recommend.
3434	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	A joy to read, even if you already know the ending. And the inset history pages are great. 
3435	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Roberto Clemente's name adorns the annual Major League Baseball award for the sport's most humanitarian athletes. Not just the first great Puerto Rican baseballer (and some would argue still the greatest) to play in the United States, Clemente famously and often quietly displayed the best of humanity. In this emotionally moving biography, the Puerto Rican Wilfred Santiago magnificently chronicles the often tragic life of this icon. Beginning with Clemente's final game, where he collected his 3,000th hit, Santiago quickly hearkens back to Clemente's poverty stricken childhood of homemade bats and practice with soda caps through his disturbing journey into the minor leagues of the Jim Crow era of institutionalized racism and onto his life as a star outfielder for the Pittsburgh Pirates. Santiago expertly traverses Clemente's tribulations, losses, and success with ease and skill. His portrayal of the baseball games rank among the finest ever attempted in this medium. Under the masterful hands of Santiago, 21 evolves into far more than just a biography of a sports figure. It showcases a life worth emulating.
3436	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The story of Roberto Clemente  I loved The story of Roberto Clemente is about him and his life and how he came about being a baseball player, Despite his intelligence he faced prejudice and unfairly conduct throughout his career and was given his due only after his unexpected death in a 1972 plane crash. The Story of Roberto Clemente is a great representation of his life and what he did in it.
3437	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	A lovely graphic novel that in THIS reviewer's amateur opinion tries to do a bit too much and accomplishes a little too little. Santiago's artistry and style is impeccable; his narrative, plotting, and pacing leaves something to be desired. I would have preferred a more focused account of some part of the amazing life of Roberto Clemente -- perhaps his rise from the Caribbean to the major leagues? Or his career? or his triumphs and tragic death? But trying to do all this in the span of a couple hundred (albeit wonderfully) illustrated pages made me feel like the surface was barely scratched. In accomplishing a bare-bones outline of the narrative of Clemente's life, I learned precious little about #21 that I didn't already know.  That said, there are scenes of great pathos, moments of visceral exhilaration, and a great tale at the heart of this book. It was a (quick) pleasure to read. The illustrations are wonderful and exciting. I only wish the writing and narrative could have kept pace.
3438	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	While at times a little confusingly structured, 21: The Story of Roberto Clemente by Wilfred Santiago brilliantly captures the life of one of baseball's greats. Santiago uses jumps in time that at first seem arbitrary. It soon becomes clear that he's not interested in telling a linear story about Clemente, but rather touching upon parts of the ballplayer's sadly short but stellar life. I really felt like I had a grasp on Roberto the family man, ballplayer, and humanitarian by the end of the book. Santiago does a great job of contextualizing Clemente's story. He uses conversations and text pieces to place Roberto's story firmly within the backdrop of Puerto Rico's struggles and overcoming racism in the US. This provides a fuller picture of his life.  Overall, 21: The Story of Roberto Clemente, is a worthwhile read for baseball fans interested in this greatly underrated hall of famer.
3439	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Rich illustrations in a very subdued, but beautiful palate. The book pivots around the 30 September 1972 game in which Clemente collected his 3,000th hit, but the majority of it examines different moments in Clemente's life - growing up in Puerto Rico, the death of his sister and brother, his time with the Santurce Crabbers and Montreal Royals, his early career with the Pirates, his charitable work in Puerto Rico, and his courtship of his eventual wife, Vera Zabala. At times the book tries to do too much in its 148 pages, particularly noticeable in the disjointed feel of the first section on Clemente's childhood, but the excellent quality of the artwork, and Santiago's translation of the strength of Clemente's character, really do pull the book together.
3440	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	this is a convoluted, jumbled, and overall disappointing biography of Roberto Clemente. The book frequently and ineffectively jumps around different times in his life, and you get no indication of what a massively important figure he was in baseball. There is absolutely no discussion of his charity work, for which he was known. It never mentions his various accomplishments - of being a 12-time gold glove winner, of being a 12-time all star, of being a .300 hitter. You see him win two world series and record his 3,000th hit, and you see that he dies tragically in a plane crash, but it does a very poor job of making it feel like as big of a deal as it was. the art was good, but the writing was atrocious. read ANYTHING ELSE about Roberto Clemente and you'll find much more in it.
3441	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This was an important story for me to read for a couple of reasons. First, this is one of those brothas (yes, brotha, read the book) that that is overly-mentioned in a superficial manner, but is seldom analyzed and discussed as a powerful person of color. Also, the book tells the story of Puerto Rico, which is another entity that is overly mentioned, yet seldom analyzed. I wish the Alis, Jim Browns, and Clementes weren't eradicated in a genocide of Freedom Fighting athletes. As a book, I felt like the storytelling got a little disjointed at times, but it was still an essential read. I strongly suggest this book to sports enthusiast, historians, and advocates for black and brown people.
3442	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	My son read this for school and he found it very difficult to follow. He told me he couldn't tell by the illustrations who was saying what. It was difficult to distinguish the characters and the story line was choppy. I couldn't believe what my son was saying. How can a graphic novel be difficult to read? I had to see for myself. I have read another Roberto Clemente biography- the Who is..series, and got more information out of that. If I had not read it, I would have closed this graphic novel by Wilfred Santiago half way through the book. My son said he was disappointed. He was hoping for a more pleasant read. I agree.
3443	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Roberto Clemente lived an inspiring yet tragic life. The beautiful artistic way of presenting his story makes this a unique baseball biography unlike any I’ve ever read. It brings to light his life in Puerto Rico, his difficult rise to pro baseball, the racial hatred of his time and so much more. I only wish it didn’t move all over the timeline. For someone unfamiliar with Clemente, that might make it difficult to follow. Otherwise, this is a great presentation of a biography of a sports legend. We found this book while visiting Pittsburgh and bought a used copy for my wife’s graphic novel collection in her high school English classroom library. It’s a great addition.
3444	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I feel kind of bad for giving this 2 stars but it's just not that great. It's disjointed. It would be hard to follow for someone without prior knowledge of Clemente. Basically it's not a good telling of Clemente's life. The art is good but the rest of it is unfortunately sorely lacking. (And this is the second book I've read this year without page numbers. What's up with that?! People, please include page numbers in your book, not having them is not cute or arty it's just annoying and inconvenient.) 
3445	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This book was a very fast read about the great story of Roberto Clemente. It was full of interesting information that kept you reading and was organized beautifully. It was amazing how this one book went from life to death and followed his entire life. I feel that their was nothing more that was needed to be added it covered everything perfectly. The only thing is that the organization of the conversations got confusing at times. 
3446	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	i dod like this book because it was about how poultry the first African-American baceball player. and in the end he was apresheated for what he did. it was a little long but i still liked it  i gave it a 4 star rateing becausr it was him who was the influence to have African-American in baceball. i would reccomend this book.
3447	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Roberto Clemente is awesome. He was involved in humanitarian work, but I feel we only get bits and pieces of his story through this graphic novel biography. It was a bit disjointed at times and jumpy in the timeline.
3448	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Absolutely amazing. Roberto Clemente is such an inspiring human being who shows us you really can do anything if you give it your all.
3449	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Brilliantly staged and authentic scenes compliment a thorough and focused account of The Great One! One of the best framing devices I've ever seen= 3 lilly white girls gushing about their idol Roberto and diligently preparing to witness history!  I could go on praising this masterpiece for a few paragraphs so just read it but DON'T READ the inside cover panels- BOTH are big time SPOILERS: All surprise is taken from the uninitiated reader even the specific years that the foretold major happenings will take place!  TIGHTEN UP GARY GROTH aka Mr. Nitpickery!!  If I had to complain about something on the inside, it would be the lack of his close family tree -you'll see why- that could have only taken one panel.
3450	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This is a story not only about baseball, but about Puerto Rico's absorption into the US and impact that had on Clemente and his friends and family. The graphic novel format lends itself to the many dimensional concept of life, and allows the reader to experience news papers, TV, letters, declarations, and conversations. Santiago really displayed how baseball is politics with this novel. Roberto Clemente was the first Latino player to be inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame.  Parts of the story I found to be a little choppy and it was hard to keep track of the time frame of things. One moment Clemente was talking to his girlfriend, the next they were married and had children. That was the only downside about this book. I loved the sepia tones, as they are softer on the eyes than traditional black and white. I also appreciated how the author changed the color of the dialogue bubbles depending on whether the characters were speaking English or Spanish. That helps give the readers a clear understanding of when English was used vs. when Spanish was used. I'm glad also that the author took us back to Clemente's childhood, as that was an important set up to how he became a baseball player. And, of course, the discussion of race that is always present, especially in the South in the 1960's. One point to note on that is the difference between his drawings of white characters vs. characters of color; white people were all hard lines and angles, while POC were drawn very flowing with lots of curves. I think that speaks to the roles and dynamics that were present between the white people and the POC.  What is most touching about this story is that his dream was realized even after his death.
3451	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	"Marcia Vining  Santiago, Wilfred. ""21"": The Story of Roberto Clemente : A Graphic Novel. Seattle, WA: Fantagraphics, 2011. Print.  Genre: Biography  Format: Print, Graphic Novel  Selection Process: Cornog, M. (2011). 21: The Story of Roberto Clemente. Library Journal, 136(12), 64-65.  ""21"" The Story of Roberto Clemente is a graphic novel biography. This is the story of Clemente from his poor beginnings in Puerto Rico to stardom in the United States, playing for the Pittsburg Pirates. While at first a bit difficult to follow, this book provides a large amount of information on Clemente's life and the beliefs that informed his actions. The art greatly assists the reader in understanding his story and the struggles and prejudice he encountered in the US in the 1960s. The illustrations give great impact and provide excitement to the baseball games portrayed as well as to the emotions Clemente experienced. Clemente dealt with the pain of loss of family members, the economic climate of the time and the horror of racism and still did not lose his faith and commitment to help his family and those impacted by poverty. His death while providing aid to the people of Nicaragua was emblematic of the man he must have been.  ""21"" is highly recommended. The story by itself is informational and entertaining at the same time. Readers may be surprised at the amount of information that can be obtained through a graphic novel. Baseball fans also will be pleased with this book as the drawings convey the suspense and excitement of the game."
3452	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I loved this graphic biography of Roberto Clemente. The story of his life is remarkable beginning with his childhood in Puerto Rico and continuing through his fame as a major league baseball player. So the story is inspirational but there was also enough baseball and social history in here to make it a more substantial book. With that said, what really made this book for me was the art. The subdued color palette (I love those browns and greys against the yellow accents) allows the expressiveness of the drawings to come through. Santiago captures facial expressions and gestures beautifully. But the absolute show-stoppers are the action sequences. I was amazed at his ability to convey sequences of motion, scale and power in two dimensions. Creative use of panel shapes and layouts meant the book felt like baseball games, a wonderful experience as a reader. Which is why I recommend this for baseball fans or fans of the graphic novel format.
3453	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This was a graphic novel about Roberto Clemente's out standing life. Roberto came from a very poor house in Puerto Rico. He was a star in track and field and baseball. He would practice every day with his friends and family. His friends were also very poor so for balls they used rocks inside of socks, doll heads inside of socks, and yarn inside of socks. By the age of 17 he was playing in a winter league where scouts would often show up and see if the future of their team was in one of these games. In the year 1954 he joined the Pittsburgh Pirates. He batted above .300 almost every season he was there. He had all 5 tools you want in a player; fielding, hitting, throwing, running ability, and speed. In 1972 there was a tragic death. Roberto was going to his home country of Puerto Rico and the plane he was on exploded right when they took off. The Pittsburgh Pirates have retired his number now. The number 21 forever lives in morn over his loss.
3454	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I really liked this book It was about Roberto Clemente. I really liked at the beginning Clemente's final game, where he hit his 3,000th hit. Then he switched the book back around and started talking about how Clemente making his own baseball bats and using soda caps to hit. Also about how he's overcame the struggles of a poor Puerto Rican man and become one of the biggest baseball legends.This is a great book about a great ball-player. But more than his baseball abilities, he was a great human being, helping where he could, especially those who needed it most. He died in a plane crash on December 31, 1972, bringing much needed supplies to survivors of an earthquake in Nicaragua. Read the book to find out more.
3455	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This was a phenomenal introductory text about the life of Roberto Clemente and his contribution to the game of baseball as well as his contribution to humanity. Santiago once again does a marvelous job weaving in aspects of history into this graphic novel to give the reader more context into the setting. He does a great job writing about the Diaspora and Spanish occupation of Puerto Rico without losing focus on the life of Roberto Clemente. This book has definitely made me want to learn more about Roberto Clemente and also I desire to teach students and other about him and his contribution to baseball alongside many other baseball players of color who served as both athletes and activists.
3456	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Stunning does not even begin to describe this graphic novel about Roberto Clemente. The illustrations were beautifully done, and I love that it includes more than just Roberto's baseball life. It takes the reader into the personal life of Clemente, while giving the reader so much background on the Puerto Rican culure.  I also love that many Spanish phrases are included in the novel. It makes it so much more real.
3457	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	"I was blown away by Santiago's account of Clemente's life and career. Clemente is more than a famous baseball player; he is a man that has overcome many adversities, and Santiago blends Clemente's passion for the game with his passion for life in one novel.  Honestly, before reading ""21,"" I did not know much about Clemente at all, nor was I interested. Now, I continue to read about him because Santiago's powerful graphic novel sparked my interest.  "
3458	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This graphic novel skims across key parts of Clemente's life, from childhood to the tragic plane crash, by breaking them up into vignettes, though they appear slightly disjointed given the brevity of the narrative and the choppy panel divisions. Nevertheless, the art is spectacular; if nothing else, Santiago truly captures Puerto Rican culture, and I would highly recommend this graphic novel on that alone. 
3459	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	"""21"" was a fairly interesting comic. It got confusing at times with the way the panels were set up. The story was ok, it showed the life of Roberto Clemente, at points it would bring you back to his childhood and it would also show his career as a baseball player. I liked the art style in this comic it was very odd along with the color palette. I would recommend this to people interested in baseballs history."
3460	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The narrative in this graphic novel was all over the place at times, without really establishing any flow except during the baseball games toward the end of the story. I liked the color choices, and many of the pages that were set up creatively to convey the action that was taking place in a game, but I don't think I would recommend this to readers who weren't already huge Clemente fans due to having to slog through the text. 
3461	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I liked this book because it covered not only the baseball portion of his life but a lot of his family life as well. The book covers everything from his early childhood up to the last days before he died. The author did a good job of not making in all about baseball but included it enough to show that he was an outstanding player. I liked how the book was written but got confused at some points because the pictures and words ran together. Otherwise the story was good.
3462	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I liked this book. It told about a great ballplayer and he was a good man of the field too. The only thing I didn't like was how you couldn't tell much about him unless you already had heard about him. It all happened during the war. I liked this book because I like baseball and I have heard about this player.I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys baseball or wants to learn about a new person that they haven't before.
3463	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This is great, and would be great in a classroom. The bio is understated, like its subject. Its politics are understated, too, but they're there. Perhaps this should be marketed to the YA market, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.
3464	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I loved the art in this story of the life of Roberto Clemente. 
3465	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	w/puerto rico voting to pursue statehood yesterday finally reading this bio of clemente and history of the island made sense.  terrific bibliography
3466	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	True quality typical of a fantagraphics book and decent illustrations. Unfortunately the story as told didn't match the power and dynamism of the real life.
3467	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	A little disjointed but visually great. I loved the sepia tone and the historical references. 
3468	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Lovely artwork and fine storytelling. I wish it was longer and went into more detail, especially about Clemente's legacy. Overall, a neat and refreshing twist on the story of Clemente.
3469	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This book is confusing, and that’s something of an accomplishment, given that I’m a huge Pittsburgh sports fan, and Roberto Clemente is my favorite athlete of all-time. I know a fair amount about him, but this book makes it very tough to follow or fully appreciate the track of his life.  To start, who’s in what family? I understand this might be an intentional device, because the Clementes did have a large and muddled circle of family and friends. Even so, it’s not always clear who’s who, and why they’re even around.  Then there are the secondary storylines - Puerto Rican independence, the death of Anairis, discontent in the cane fields. Scenes pop in and out without warning or any immediate sense of relevance to what’s happening in Roberto’s life. It all could be interesting, if it wasn’t even better at being distracting.  The sports info is a lot easier to follow, even though it’s relatively brief. Santiago doesn’t overdo the sports aspect of Clemente’s life. He’s able to convey a lot about Clemente’s skill, his pride, and the resentment he felt about perceived lack of appreciation, in a few graphic panels and sketches of dialogue. Then again, for those who don’t know Roberto Clemente - Baseball Star, his athletic history may also be tough to figure out.  I do like most of the graphics, even though there are times when I can’t tell exactly what is happening. I especially like the restrained color palette: with lots of brown and gray and black.  That leaves me with two more distractions to rant about: first, the three nameless girls who see Clemente get his 3,000th hit. Santiago designates one of them as a narrator, and again I have no idea why. She just pops in to chat about Clemente’s final game at seemingly random moments, and then pops back out again.  As a final “what’s going on here?” Santiago has spliced in a few double-page spreads featuring aspects of Taino Puerto Rican culture and history. Again I understand why this is important. I have a sense of how much Clemente means to Puerto Ricans and all of Latin America. But there’s almost no effort to put these cultural messages into context. The final spread is a National Geographic blurb about Bomba as a dance form. Its placement is so bewildering as to seem insulting to the memory of how great Roberto Clemente is. And that’s a very tough add-on to explain away.
3470	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The visuals are amazing, but the story is disjointed and confusing. I was only able to keep up because I've read other books about Clemente and know a bit about Puerto Rican history, which is sprinkled throughout the book. Still, I found my mind wandering as I read. The font for some parts that describe Puerto Rico was too small too read and I ended up skimming over some those pages, despite being a history teacher with an interest in Latin American the Caribbean!  It seems that Santiago tries to take on too much...baseball, racism, Puerto Rican history and culture, Clemente's personal life...This book would've benefited from either being more focused or being broken up into a series so each aspect could be explored more in-depth. I was super excited to see this come out, but unfortunately I can't recommend it beyond the visuals.
3471	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	It takes work for me to read a graphic novel thanks to my shining (not!) spatial relations skills, but I am determined to have the lightbulb go on at some point.  This is a lovely introduction to Roberto Clemente, about whom I knew very little prior to reading this book despite walking over the bridge bearing his name numerous times on one of many trips to PGH. If you love baseball, Clemente, Puerto Rico, or the city of Pittsburgh, you will enjoy this. And if you don't like any of those but enjoy art and history, try this one on for size.
3472	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The unique art style and coloring of this book was wonderful. I loved the use of actual newspaper pages to tie in with important moments of the story. However, the actual storytelling left a lot to be desired. The beginning especially was very hard to follow and keep track of who was who and who was speaking. It also jumped around a lot without warning and without a lot of explanation.  All in all, lovely to look at, but a bit of a chore to read.
3473	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	At times, it was difficult to follow the story due to the structure of the chapters; for example, when I came across a section entitled Chapter III, I didn't recall Chapters I & II. I went back through the pages, and quickly identified what I thought to be the beginning of Chapter II, but was unsure if Chapter I started at the beginning or after what I perceived to maybe be a Prologue. Nonetheless, the story chronicles Mr. Clemente's childhood, rise to greatness, and tragic end. 
3474	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	 I think the book was pretty good. I think it would have been better if it was written the normal way instead of like a graphic novel, but it was fine. I like who and what the book was about and it makes a good story. It displays his life really well. Overall it was pretty decent and I would recommend to someone who likes sports or just likes a good overcoming story.
3475	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	"Stopped reading this when I got up to the part with ""Jesus, King of the Jews"" and the accusation that Jews killed Christian babies. Flipped through the rest to see if it was disputed elsewhere but couldn't find any other mention. (If anyone else did, please let me know.) Shocking to see blood libel in a book published in 2011, ironic to see it in one that's supposed to be about prejudice."
3476	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I really like the style and organization of this graphic novel. However, I think that unless you come to this book with a lot of Clemente background knowledge, you might get lost. On the other hand, the illustrations are amazing, and I now want to read more about him. 
3477	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The artwork is as beautiful as the storyline. Roberto Clemente was a great man, and an incredible ballplayer and philanthropist. Learning about his culture is crucial for full understanding of this incredible historical character.
3478	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The art is gorgeous. The storyline threw me a bit. I appreciated that it’s a bunch of images from Clemente’s life, but I think some kind of transition between vignettes would have made the story easier to process. 
3479	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Artwork is very good, which bumped my rating at least one full star but the continuity of storytelling drastically changes frame to frame, making it a challenge to track the story. The result is very choppy and disconnected. Still, it's a biography of an amazing Pirate so it was worth it
3480	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Liked the artwork, but the story felt disjointed and basic. 
3481	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Lovely artwork but confusing story line. 
3482	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Shows how far minorites have come in the world of sports and the world in general.
3483	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Parts of the story felt a little too fragmented for me but I really enjoyed learning about the great legacy of Roberto Clemente. The artwork was so beautiful as well, really enjoyed the style!
3484	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Kind of hard to follow. 
3485	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Well-written, and wonderful artwork. Informative.
3486	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Amazing book about an amazing baseball player! All baseball fans will love this one.
3487	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I found the story really hard to follow. It touches on many different things but never forms a cohesive thread.  
3488	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Beautiful art, but a bit confusing in its structure.
3489	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	So confusing. So little information about Clemente’s life. 
3490	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	a lot of love in this book
3491	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	told in a series of flashbacks about his island childhood and politics. signed by the dodgers how fumble him away to the pirates where he has a hall of fame career. he tries to help some people. rip.
3492	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The art style was cool. The pacing was off. A lot of the characters look the same so I had a hard time telling who was who. Also…I have no idea who Luis is. Who is he to Clemente and how did he die? (Read digitally for my Latinx Comics class)
3493	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Although disjointed in a number of places, the style is cinematic, with ample visual storytelling and subtle language cues to distinguish English and Spanish speech. Disjointedness comes from a surplus of underdeveloped characters, rendered with less visual distinctiveness than they deserve. As a storyboard for a film, though, it's ready to shoot.
3494	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This was well-drawn—the action leapt off the pages. My only complaint is that some time periods seemed elided, rushed, or skipped over entirely—a lot more so toward the end of the book—leaving me feeling a little disjointed upon finishing the book. Still, I feel I learned a little more about Clemente's legacy.
3495	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Confusing, hard to follow. I don't feel like I actually learned anything about Roberto Clemente. 
3496	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	A beautiful rendering of Clemente's life tied-in with the colonized history and culture of Puerto Rico.
3497	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	wish this one had some focus on who roberto clemente was as an adult OUTSIDE of baseball but the art was pretty 
3498	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This biographical graphic novel follows the life of baseball legend Roberto Clemente from his impoverished childhood in Puerto Rico through his baseball career ending with his tragic, untimely death. It covers the struggles Clemente went through being a ball player of color, family tragedy as his sister died in a fire during his youth, and his philanthropic efforts in Nicaragua.I felt that the orange and brown color scheme was wonderful for this book and help me visualize the time period (to me, the 1970s were synonymous with orange, olive green and brown tones). The illustrations were rich and realistic with a slight cartoon-like feel. White speech balloons represent words spoken in Spanish (though they are written in English), while orange balloons represent those spoken in English. The illustrations on the final few pages were very intense and powerful, but the most powerful use of illustrations in the whole novel was that of Santiago's use of blackness on the final page of the biography with the text stating, “At 9:23 PM, the aircraft crashed near the coast of San Juan. Roberto Clemente’s body was never recovered…” Very powerful stuff.]Overall, I did really like this book. I am an avid reader of graphic novels, so I am no rookie when it comes to this form. Still, this particular graphic novel posed some problems for me. I found it to be very disjointed. I enjoy baseball as much as the next person, but I was not familiar with the details of Clemente’s life outside of baseball and the disjointedness of the book really made it difficult for me to understand what was going on. I had to reread the entire first section of the book because I did not understand what happened to Anairis. I thought the art was spectacular! Visually stunning, but I had some difficulty telling the family members apart as many of them were not properly introduced/developed. The final sections of the book, beginning with “Roberto and Vera” were, in my opinion, flawless. It was fast paced, beautifully drawn, exciting, and heartbreaking. I would give this book five stars based solely on this part of the book, in spite of everything else that I found difficult with the book.
3499	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I'm trying to become a baseball fan. It's difficult. I played baseball one year of my life, and it was awful. The most exciting thing that happened the entire season was getting pantsed in the pre-game warm-up.  But I'm now a devoted baseball fan. Devoted enough to buy a ball cap of my favorite team - THE DETROIT TIGERS! (My father-in-law is a Tigers fan, and he's the one who talked me into becoming a fan...)  However, hailing from Pennsylvania, I know a little about the Pirates. A very little, because Pittsburgh is a football city. So, yeah... The only knowledge I had was that there may or may not be a baseball team in Pittsburgh. And if they still have a team, it's the Pirates. (Also, they have a great outfielder, Andrew McCutchen.)  It may shock some of you to realize I didn't know who Roberto Clemente was. My college roommate was a Pittsburgh fan, but Clemente's name never came up. (My roommate wasn't alive in 1960. Or 1970. Or 1980.)  But there's an Art Teacher at my school who is a HUGE Clemente fan. He's not really a Pirates fan, but he loves the man Clemente, and he told me his whole story a couple of times.  This is a great graphic novel about a great ball-player. But more than Clemente's baseball abilities, he was a great human being, helping where he could, especially among those who needed it most.
3500	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	"It's pretty good. I like the art and the story as a whole. It does feel light in some areas. It hops over some details too quickly. There are some small political historical elements but those are all skimmed over. We don't really get to spend any nuanced time with the ideas of Puerto Rican independence and what that would have meant to Roberto. We do get a retelling of the three magi bringing baby jesus gifts. And maybe if we didn't have that we'd have more time to deal with some more dense story telling. Just a thought. We get these snapshots of roberto dealing with segregation but it's just mentioned and we move on. We have this one conversation where someone mentions black people from other countries only dating white girls and it's also just run off the page. I think dealing with some of this stuff would've been more interesting than spending as much time on certain baseball games and stuff. I just think it might have provided a more fun and substantial look at his life. But I think the book is really good. Just could have been much more. Also, it definitely looses points for including the line ""scalp the indians."" That shit is foul and needs to be removed from our lexicon. It in no way needs to be in the book and totally detracts from everything that's going on. It's so gross."
3501	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Many things I loved about this graphic telling of the life and career of Roberto Clemente. The people are gorgeously rendered, and there are interesting blends of newspaper clippings and historic details in the drawings, and Santiago comes up with numerous ways to depict a baseball getting hit. There were a number of leaps in the storytelling that confused me, however, and I kept going back to earlier pages to see if I'd missed important information or the introduction of characters. *spoilers* For example, Clemente is shown to blame the Pittsburgh press for sabotaging his 1960 MVP candidacy, but no previous scenes showed why he would believe that or that that Clemente had a contentious relationship with the press at the time. The book leaps from 1960 to 1971, World Series to World Series, with Clemente's growing dominance conveyed with a single collage. I was especially disappointed that the book does not convey the beginnings of Clemente's humanitarian work. That being said, I was moved by the opening chapters of Clemente's childhood in Puerto Rico, and his final days. A good introduction to Roberto Clemente for middle and high school readers, but they will want to seek out supplemental material to really get a sense of the man.
3502	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	48 years ago, Roberto Clemente boarded a plane that was overloaded by 4,200 pounds of relief efforts for the Managua earthquake. The plane immediately crashed after takeoff due to engine failure, and his body was never recovered.  On September 30, 1972, Clemente had his 3,000th and last regular-season hit of his exceptional career.  On July 25, 1956, Clemente hit the only walk-off inside-the-park grand slam in professional baseball history.  21 is a graphic novel biography of Puerto Rico's greatest baseball star. No other baseball player dominated the 1960’s like him and no other Latin American player achieved his numbers. 21 chronicles his early days growing up in rural Puerto Rico, the highlights of his career, the prejudice he faced, his private life and his humanitarian mission.  Santiago captures the grit of Clemente's rise from his impoverished childhood, to the majesty of his performance on the field, to his fundamental decency as a human being, in a drawing style that combines realistic attention to detail and expressive cartooning.  While the story is not quite linear, and was a little all over the place, I still enjoyed reading it and I learned a lot about Clemente in the process. This is a great book to honor his incredible life and baseball career.
3503	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This was a graphic novel about Roberto Clemente's out standing life. Roberto came from a very poor house in Puerto Rico. He was a star in track and field and baseball. He would practice every day with his friends and family. His friends were also very poor so for balls they used rocks inside of socks, doll heads inside of socks, and yarn inside of socks. By the age of 17 he was playing in a winter league where scouts would often show up and see if the future of their team was in one of these games. In the year 1954 he joined the Pittsburgh Pirates. He batted above .300 almost every season he was there. He had all 5 tools you want in a player; fielding, hitting, throwing, running ability, and speed. In 1972 there was a tragic death. Roberto was going to his home country of Puerto Rico and the plane he was on exploded right when they took off. The Pittsburgh Pirates have retired his number now. The number 21 forever lives in morn over his loss.
3504	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I wanted to like this more, but the art was very confusing. And I am a pretty literate graphic novel reader! But when you can't tell characters in the family apart, and there seem to be gaps in the action, it just distracts me from the story. (Or maybe I am getting old!) I was interested to know more about this famous Puerto Rican baseball player, since all I really knew was his tragic death in a plane crash, and I did learn about his life and career. But the art was not a style I really like. Definitely a good choice for boys who like baseball and comics; I'm sure I'm just not the right audience for this book.
3505	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This graphic novel begins with Clemente's childhood in rural Puerto Rico and follows him through his rise in Major League baseball. It depicts his awe-inspiring career as a right fielder for the Pittsburgh Pirates, the prejudice he faced, and his humanitarian mission.  It took me a while to get into this story because it doesn't introduce new characters very well; it just jumps in and it's hard to keep up. However, I did get really interested about a third of the way in. The illustrations are fun and creative, and the book does a great job of covering all aspects of this incredible man's life.
3506	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The artwork was my favorite part of the graphic novel--lush and exciting--but I found the story hard to follow at times. I'm sure part of this is due to the fact that I'm not much of a sports person and therefore knew relatively little about Clemente, but the narrative jumped around in time a lot and the characters and events of his early years in PR seemed muddled. I would have liked Santiago to have spent more time elaborating on episodes of Clemente's life where instead he seemed just to gloss. To be sure, I came away from 21 with a better understanding of Clemente as a person, but I would have liked it to have been slightly deeper.
3507	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Vignettes of Clemente's life, his career in baseball, and the history of Puerto Rico. I enjoyed the art -- great variety in styles make the frames jump out of the pages. The lettering in many places lacks contrast with the background, making it difficult to read, but I found this a minor annoyance. I found the beginning, Clemente's youth and family, to be a jumble -- you can't tell what is happening or who the people are. There are also some anecdotes that are represented in a single frame that could use more depth to tell the story. Despite those issues I liked the book and would recommend it, especially for those that didn't know Clemente and those that like comic art.
3508	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I wasn’t happy to be reading a graphic novel, but I got over that. I was excited that it was a book about baseball. However, the choppy storyline really made this for a difficult read. It didn’t hold my interest at the beginning. I did like the current storyline that ran through the novel a bit: about the kids getting excited to go to the game to watch Clemente’s 3,000th hit. Their excitement for the game, even with the icky weather, just got me that much more excited for the start of baseball season (my favorite sport). 
3509	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	"This is a beautiful telling of the life and character that is Roberto Clemente.  The narrative is really unique- it does not pace like a traditional comic or even traditional prose. I actually felt the Latin influence reflected in the execution. This is even illustrated by the way the word balloons change for white/English speakers when Roberto goes to America and then eventually begins speaking English.  ""If you have a chance to help others and fail to do so, you are wasting your time on this earth."""
3510	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The theme of this book is perseverance because Roberto had to overcome racism while playing baseball. The theme of not giving up also happens to be the conflict. My signpost is again and again for when the Pirates band plays their fight song before every game. The resolution in the book is when he eclipses the 3,000 hit mark and leads the pirates to the world series twice in his career. I gave this book 3 stars. I gave it that rating because I liked the story a lot but it was a little easy because it was a graphic novel.
3511	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Yeah, um, ok. Getting convinced by other people's reviews -- this book really had no sense of context for someone who wasn't pretty familiar with Clemente already. The art was great, I think if there had been a better sense of story it wouldn't have seemed so repetitive. Look, I love baseball, I basically love comic books about baseball, but uh.. I think this was mostly about Puerto Rico? Definitely trying to be too many things at once.
3512	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Visually beautiful, it works well on certain levels but mostly flails. The narrative was disjointed and most characters are not properly introduced. It's a very dry biographical work but that does not excuse it from being interesting. As a huge baseball fan, I'm sad to see that Santiago swung and missed at a wonderful opportunity to work his beautiful art toward building lush characters and themes.
3513	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	One of my few favorite ballplayers, though sadly, I never got to see him play, this graphic novel installment of Roberto Clemente's life sheds some light on his upbringing albeit in a choppy manner. Too condensed in my opinion, but nevertheless, the subject, the artwork, and the infusion of archived documents made it interesting anyway. Glad I stumbled onto this at Myopic Books in Chicago. For a die-hard baseball fan like me, this is a shelf soldier.
3514	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	"""21"" the story of Roberto Clemente tells the story of the famous baseball player Roberto Clemente's life. Although it can be confusing at times, jumping back and forth a bit, it does a great job covering everything form his childhood in poverty up to his 3000th hit in the major leagues. I really liked the artwork in this book, it used a brown scale which made it interesting. I would recommend this to anyone who is interested in the baseball history. "
3515	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This book is about a great man who was not only a hero out on the baseball field, but to the island of Puerto Rico. Roberto Clemente's life is talked about through his childhood living on the island, being discovered as a baseball player, helping others, being humbled, staying true to his heritage roots, and always helping others. This book was indeed spot on to who he was as a individual and displayed such through the stories shared about his life.
3516	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Confused as to why it's listed on Goodreads with a publication date of 2008, but on Amazon with a publication date of April 12, 2011?  This is important because books are only eligible for YALSA's 2012 Great Graphic Novels for Teens booklist if they were published between September 1, 2010 and December 31, 2011. Hoping that it's just a typo/mistake on Goodreads.com...
3517	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Great color, although the drawing feels a bit childrens-book or cartoonish to me. A very nice package, with a good sense of history and detail, but ultimately too dry -- just straightahead biography, very little in the way of novelistic detail or historical contextualization.  a gorgeouslooking book though -- very rich color printing, good size, paper stock. (trying to be nice here)
3518	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	A beautiful graphic novel biography for teens or adults. Though confusing at times, I enjoyed that the biography was not written chronologically, but jumped around through different periods in Roberto's life. The orange, tan, and black coloring gave the illustrations a unique and antique feel. The action of the baseball games was very well captured in the illustrations. 
3519	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This book started off pretty slowly and was kind of a jumbled mess at first, but it picks up about halfway through. I think I would have enjoyed reading a regular biography of Clemente more than reading this, just because I felt like I only got glimpses of his life rather than the whole story. However, the artwork in this graphic novel is fantastic.
3520	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	My opinion is like many other reviews. This was a great story on how Roberto rose to fame. But at points in the story it was very disjointed and I kept getting the characters confused. Especially at the beginning when they were switching back and forth between Roberto and Momen. I kept thinking Momen was another child in the family.
3521	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Now I love baseball and growing up in my house I always heard of Roberto Clementine but only in his name. So when I saw this I thought why not read it. I enjoyed the sepia tone feel making feel more old timey and the pictures an text went along with each other well. However it wasn't really that interesting even for someone who is really into baseball but I learned more about him. 
3522	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This book is absolutely gorgeous. Santiago is an amazing illustrator; however, the text is a disservice both to the illustrations and Roberto Clemente’s story. Having said that I would like nothing better than to have a print of the frame with the frightened little boy saying “Mommy, There’s a Yankee under the bed.”
3523	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I'm glad I finally learned about RC, especially having substitute taught at Clemente HS for so long. The structure of this graphic novel was challenging at first--it was hard to sense transitions, so I was confused when the story jumped around in time & perspective. But I loved how the gn format evoked the sounds and feelings of playing baseball. 
3524	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Beautiful artwork for a compelling story of Roberto Clemente's journey from poverty in Puerto Rico to baseball stardom with the Pittsburgh Pirates. The artwork is very well done, story is a bit confusing and incomplete, but i enjoyed the additional history pages, putting his story in context with the history of Puerto Rico. A man worth remembering and this book is an excellent tribute. 
3525	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Wilfred Santiago's graphic novel of the life of Roberto Clemente is interesting and has some moving moments and good artwork, yet the book struggles due to lack of focus as he tries to talk about the history of Puerto Rico, Roberto Clemente's family history, etc. that it's hard for any of it to focus. And despite some very solid art, that lack of focus, that makes the book mediocre at best.
3526	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I really didn't know anything about Clemente, and now I know a little bit. The style of the book was very interesting, but it jumped around too much for me, especially in Clemente's childhood. I found it challenging to keep track of all his family members and how they impacted him.
3527	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Roberto Clemente was one of my boyhood heroes, so is there any surprise that I loved this book? Would have liked to have seen more focus on his baseball career and less focus on his early life, but I guess you don't get the final scene without knowing the introduction.
3528	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I don't know what was going on, and it may have been my fault, but I swear that this book was a mess. Sometimes I wondered if I wasn't reading a right-to-left manga, the panels seemed so strangely thrown together! And the story itself -- what I could make of it -- was ho hum at best.
3529	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I really wanted to like this more, being a comic fan, a baseball fan, and a Pittsburgher. The artwork is great but the storytelling style is extremely disjointed -- like an explosion of fragmented memories -- that I found it very hard to follow what was going on.
3530	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I wanted to love this book. The artwork is enchanting, but the narrative is tangled and two to three times as long as this particular format (graphic novel) will bear. I can't recommend it as anything other than a curiosity.
3531	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Disjointed graphic novel version of the inspiring life of Roberto Clemente. I usually love graphic novels, but might do better to read a more traditional biography--had trouble following the narrative here.
3532	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Lazy review: It's fine. I don't really have too many feelings about it. I didn't particularly like the art, but it was nice. Sometimes the layout got confusing, and it could be twice as long. But it's a non-fiction baseball book, so it's kind of great regardless.
3533	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Amazing and dynamic graphic illustrations depict the life of one of America's best baseball players who excelled as a athlete, as a gentleman and a humanitarian despite a time in our history where discrimination was obvious and blatant. 
3534	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Didn't love the artwork - occasionally difficult to decipher. Interesting learning about his life though. I wouldn't have picked up a baseball player's biography ordinarily, so the graphic novel format was a better way for me to ease into it.
3535	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Took me a while to get into the story, but enjoyed it. The baseball sections were fantastic, and I would agree that maybe too much was attempted. If you like sports stories, this is a fine one of a great man. 
3536	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	via NYPL - Santaigo's nice illustrations are a positive; his disjointed narrative is a drawback. This one's just okay, despite getting the hardest part - the depiction of baseball on a static page - right.
3537	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Beautiful book and an interesting subject, but as many reviewers have noted, the clarity was lacking at points, making it hard to figure out the timeline. Might be a better read if you already know a lot about Clemente's life.
3538	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Beautiful and interesting, but a bit all over the place. I don't think this is a particularly effective biography. If you already know about Roberto Clemente, this might be a cool series of visualization a for you, but otherwise it doesn't really do the man's life much justice.
3539	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I really enjoyed this book because it was a graphic novel. Most comic books are fiction but personally I prefer non fiction. I liked how it showed the story of his life in a fun and easy to read book.
3540	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Art is fantastic, really keeps you engaged. Story is summarized and though I really enjoyed it I can see how some sections were not translated to English the best way. It wouldn't make sense and would need to read again. I can't express how much I enjoyed the art.
3541	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I liked this graphic novel about Roberto Clemente, but didn't absolutely love it. I wanted to give it 3-1/2 stars. The story was a bit disjointed for my tastes, but the illustrations are engaging, and of course #21 is a hero for all time.
3542	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Brilliant illustrations...absolutely worth it in that respect. The story, however, is a bit convoluted. Still, well worth the quick read
3543	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Review for SLJ here: http://blog.schoollibraryjournal.com/...
3544	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Click to see book in BCPL's online catalog 
3545	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	It hard to follow the story in some of the sections because of the art and panel layouts but it was a great vignette of Clemente's life.
3546	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The art was nice, but the story telling was a little too disjointed and shallow for my taste. I feel like I could only keep up because I've read David Maraniss's biography of Clemente. 
3547	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	parts were hard to follow but overall, a nicely scattered telling of the life of roberto clemente. beautiful art.
3548	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Good account of Clemente's life, but the storytelling jumps around and leaves a lot of holes. Nice art, but you need to already know a lot about Clemente to appreciate it.
3549	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This was my first graphic novel and I truly enjoyed it. The author caught a great amount of oollateral detail which added to its air of authenticity.
3550	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Great illustrations, but if you're like me, and you get bored watching baseball on TV, you'll get even more bored watching baseball in comics. 
3551	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Great story told with great art! A must read for baseball fans of all ages.    
3552	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	My 2nd graphic novel. This was an excellent biography of Roberto Clemente. I've gained a new appreciation for the form.
3553	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Check out my review on No Flying, No Tights!
3554	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This disappointing graphic biography of Puerto Rican baseball player Clemente suffers from poor organization and lack of poignancy. 
3555	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Cute and interestingly executed.
3556	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The story was a little hard to follow with the way they jumped back in forth in time. It was exciting reading about the baseball.
3557	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Stunningly beautiful artwork but muddled narrative.
3559	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Really amazing artwork make this a worthwhile graphic biography. 
3560	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Very pretty, but could have been way, way more insightful.
3561	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Excellent and moving graphic novel that depicts the life and tragic death of one of my childhood heroes.
3562	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Story of a great humanitarian, told in an unconventional way. Nice art, very stylistic. Sometimes confusing to follow who's who. Poignant ending.
3563	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	I don't read graphic novels/comics, but I love Clemente and I had to get it and I am glad I did. Awesome book!
3564	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	The art was great but the story could have been so much more. 
3565	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Well done, just not my cup of tea.
3566	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	An interesting look at the life and times of Roberto Clemente. Some pages were masterful: others confused me or were simply uninviting. 
3567	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This is really excellent, I love this artist's style--it's very evocative. Even if you're not interested in baseball, I think there's a lot here for anyone interested in biography and history.
3569	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	SIX WORD REVIEW: Pittsburgh really had such a man?
3570	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Dug the art.
3571	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Enjoy any publication pertaining to Roberto Clemente. But this book was kind of confusing and just didn't flow. OK book. Rather disappointing. 
3572	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This is a wonderful biography about Roberto Clemente.
3573	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Love Roberto. Good version of his story. (Forgot to enter this in my feed when I read it a couple of years ago.)
3575	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	the colors of the Pittsburgh pirates were a constant presence within the text. Major league illustrations with a prodigious story.
3576	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	Disjointed and rather confusing narrative, but I really liked the art style
3577	21:_The_Story_Of_Roberto_Clemente	This story captures the life of one of the baseball's greats. Santiago uses leaps in time that first seem arbitrary. It soon becomes clear that he's not interested in telling a linear story about clemente, but rather touching upon parts of the ballplayer's sadly short but stellar life. I really felt like I could understand Roberto the family man, ballplayer, and humanitarian by the end of the story. I would recommend the story to young athletes seeking to find motivation for the game. Even though I don't see how you need to have extra help to be motivated for such a great game!! 
3578	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A graphic telling of the story of Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. I really liked the pages where they interpret what it was like for Helen and how she experienced something, usually in a dark panel. It worked really well I felt.  The art was serviceable but not that great really. The story is simply a powerful story whether it's told as a book, graphic novel, or movie. Helen gives me hope in a way that no other story can. She found a way through a horrible handicap. Luckily, her parents had means, otherwise, it would have been a very different story for her.  A nice fast-paced read with good information in it. Great for all ages.
3579	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"Wow. Wow. Wow. I read an excerpt from this graphic biography in a Best American Comics collection, which compelled me to request the book from my library. I am blown away by the storytelling power of the author/illustrator. The textual part of the story is excellent, but I am downright astonished by his ability to convey such deep emotion through ""cartoons."" Although I could have polished this off in an hour, it took me a few days because I wanted to savor it, and also because I would find myself staring at individual frames for my entire 15-minute train commute! There is one particular scene/frame that only includes a drawing of an embrace, but there is SOOOO much emotion in that tiny drawing. Every detail -- even the artist's choice of the placement of the arms and hands -- feels significant. I don't want to give too much away, but the way he demonstrates Helen's perspective throughout the book is sheer brilliance. And the sections about Annie's brother Jimmy are incredibly poignant. This book is powerful.  My only complaint about this book is that it is not longer :) I want more! Coincidentally, right before I read the book (but after I had read the excerpt), I stumbled upon a short piece about how Annie Sullivan's life story usually ends with her teaching of Helen Keller, but that she was a radical social activist and had a very vivid life that continued past the typically publicized portion. I'd love to read a graphic re-telling of her later years by this author.  This bio is part of a series (5 parts, I think) by the Center for Cartoon Studies, and I'm eager to read all of them. Houdini is next in my queue, and I can only hope that its author is equally talented."
3580	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller by Joseph Lambert (Disney Hyperion, 2012) is a finalist for the Cybils 2012 awards in the graphic novels category. I love Helen Keller’s story, so I was interested to pick this one up.I loved how Lambert captured Helen’s state in a different graphical representation. Before Helen has learned words and speech, Lambert illustrates a box of all black, with some gray or otherwise unclear lines to indicate where she feels something. So many of those boxes look the same. A disheveled creature is exclaiming (no words of course, since young Helen did not have any speech) as something is snatched out of her arms. I cannot imagine having no speech, no sight, and no hearing. How frustrating life must have been for the poor young girl! Things happened to her. She was not a part of anything.As Annie Sullivan teaches Helen, the boxes that represent her state gradually gain shape and color. True, Helen did not see color, but as Lambert represents her learning words and concepts, Helen’s world likewise gains color. I loved the powerful representation of Helen as she developed.Lambert continues Helen’s story, but this is really a book about Annie Sullivan. The first portion captures some of Annie’s trepidation about teaching Helen, and after the initial learning moments in Alabama, the book shifts to a few years later down the line, when Annie and Helen return to the Perkins School for the Blind. Here, Annie deals with the leaders of the school who resent her for her fame in working with Helen. Further, Helen is accused of plagiarism of a story that she has written to Annie. As Helen is accused before all the magistrates, she is left nervous and unhappy, as she has believed she wrote an original story. Annie leaves feeling frustrated as well.Since this was the end of the book, I too left feeling frustrated. I loved seeing Helen’s transformation in the graphic representation, and Annie’s story provided a personal touch that I was not familiar with. Annie, too, had vision troubles, so her story parallels Helen Keller’s in some ways. But the book ended on such a discouraging note, and there seemed little resolution. It was based on facts, and yet, I felt that the ending could have drawn on some more of the friendship between the two women.In all, I really liked this historical fiction graphic novel, but I felt the telling of the story would have been more powerful if it had not ended so abruptly.Cross-posted on my blog
3581	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I brought this graphic novel home for my children to read and became utterly absorbed by it. It captures the life of Annie Sullivan before she met up with her famous charge, and it movingly reveals her own mental drama in trying to reach Helen Keller and simultaneously deal with her own demons. (She was put in an alms house as a child with her brother, who died there.) Annie was sent to the Perkins Institute for the Blind and initially she was regarded as troublesome (nicknamed Spitfire) and not very smart. At times, Annie's ordeals brought me to tears. The graphic novel also thrust me into the psychic world of Helen Keller more powerfully, I feel, than any other book I'd previously read on the topic. It also revealed the not well-known tale of Helen Keller's ""plagiarism."" (I'd stumbled upon an article about it in the New York Review of Books.) Sadly, the board/committee at the Perkins Institute hounded and cross-examined Helen so intensely, she never wrote a story again. I guess each reader can decide for him/herself if Helen plagiarized or not. And then there was the question of Annie's culpability. It really got me thinking about the nature of memory, told-to stories, and creativity. In short, this book isn't just for young readers."
3582	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Helen Keller's Best Friend Belle  Intermediate nonfiction text: Lambert, J. (2012). Annie Sullivan and the trials of Helen Keller. Disney Book Group: New York, NY.  Twin Text: Barry, H. M. (2013). Helen Keller’s best friend Belle. Il. Jennifer Thomas. Albert & Whitman Company: Chicago, IL  Rationale: Helen Keller’s Best Friend Belle displays Helen’s life as a young girl. The illustrations depict the time period in still an inviting manner. The story is relatable to any child who has or loves a dog. The timeline of Keller’s life is portrayed for the younger audience. As a pairing with Annie Sullivan and the Trails of Helen Keller there is quite a contrast. Lambert’s text provides the reader with a more detailed background of Sullivan and Keller. Trials are a very appropriate word to depict this understanding of Keller’s life. Sullivan was very persistent and a lot like myself demanded compliance before reinforcement. This book provided a greater amount of detail to Keller learning to communicate. Helen Keller is included in the second grade Language Arts curriculum so these texts would be good extension activities. Lambert’s text of a graphic novel and nonfiction texts lends it’s own unique reading experience.  Nonfiction Text Structure: This graphic novel uses established sequences of hours, days, and years. The illustrations also show Keller growing through the novel. The author utilized two black pages to organize the time periods of Keller and Sullivan’s lives. The first black page separated their life from finger spelling and the second from writing into speaking. At the completion of the graphics there are pages of discussion with page number references to important facts, place, and people throughout the text.  Engagement Strategy application: A Venn diagram can be used to compare Annie and Helen. A list of character traits and facts about the characters could be constructed in one lesson and then a Venn diagram could be created as a lesson on character point of view took place. For younger students or lower reading leveled students the DR-TA could be conducted after a picture walk of the fiction text. Barry’s text has illustrations of sign language and braille that assist in the understanding of Keller’s communication. The students could use sign language and braille in their word work center of the week to extend the lesson and engage them in this different type of communication. 
3583	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I found this graphic novel telling of the relationship between young Helen Keller and Anne Sullivan to be really engrossing. Anne Sullivan's personal history and obstacles lent a new and interesting perspective to the story, and there was no tidy wrapping up of the story or sugarcoating of the difficulties that Helen's family, Annie, and the Perkin's school folks ran into when trying to help Helen and communicate with one another. It does not try to tell the WHOLE story, and in fact ends at a rather ambivalent place, which made me want to go read and learn more. The art is super crisp, clear, and bright and does more than just illustrate the words on the page; it really furthers the story by itself and encourages some fairly complex visual literacy skills (for instance, representing without explanation Helen's blindness by depicting simple shapes on a black background). The ""Panel Discussions"" in the back fill in some of the historical and background information and instill confidence in the information's authenticity. The ""Bibliography and Suggested Reading"" is a nice combination of primary and secondary sources, and does not just offer ""kid's"" stuff (Keller's autobiography, for instance, is one of the sources.) Although this is cataloged at SPL with children's graphic novels, I would say that not only does it have a much broader appeal, but that I think teens and adults are likely to find it more appealing. It will probably be a tough sell for pleasure reading, except for those who already have an affinity for biography and history, but it would be an excellent and easier sell for tweens and teens with a related homework assignment. Would be great to use in the classroom."
3584	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I didn't think I would particularly like this book; I read the other four (so far) in this series of (YA level?) biographies, and I liked three of them, but wasn't blown away by them.... and I had seen various films and reading Keller's own autobio, had seen docs, etc etc. We all know the story, duh. But this was a fresh take, in many ways, using the visual to convey what words alone could not, which is how it should be...I like the intertwined story tale, tacking back and forth between emotional, determined Annie and emotional, determined Helen... The story IS familiar, and reading (once again) that vignette about Helen's epiphany about language is still moving, and their relationship is dynamic and inspirational and moving. This story is really more about Annie (thus the title) and her trials, so that's an interesting angle. The team (as with Amelia Earhart, Houdini, Satchel Paige) takes a person familiar to older generations and makes sure new generations don't forget them, and in interesting and useful ways. In this case it holds up the image of Annie, the teacher, and deservedly so. That's cool.
3585	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"WOW.  I've always been fascinated by Helen Keller, and I've read so much about it, so I wasn't thinking I would learn anything new from a graphic novel aimed at kids. Boy, was I wrong!  I had no idea that Annie Sullivan was so prickly and defensive of a person. Don't get me wrong; I don't blame her in the least, with all the horrible things she went through as a child. And I had known about the issue regarding Keller's story ""The Frost King,"" but I suppose I'd never really stopped to think about how devastating it would be to her to be questioned about it so thoroughly. No wonder she never wrote anything else again, if she couldn't trust what was in her own mind.  I was blown away by the creative way Lambert showed Sullivan's arrival for Helen Keller. I absolutely loved his rough, raw depictions of Helen, almost two-dimensional, because how else would a blind and deaf child experience the world? I think it made it that much more vivid for us sighted people. Very well done.  Fascinating book, and one I would highly recommend."
3586	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"Text: 5 stars Art: 5 stars  Graphic biography about Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. Everything I've read previously about this dynamic duo focuses on Helen, so I really appreciate this being told from Annie's perspective. I learned a lot about Annie that I hadn't known prior to reading this book. The art is especially effective in sensitizing readers to Helen's experience of the world, while the story fleshes out the experiences, relationships, and personality of Annie. The story is organized in an interesting fashion and uses flashbacks to provide a fuller understanding, especially of Annie. Readers see, and feel, the symbiotic and loving relationship that develops between Helen and ""Teacher."" This could be read by children and teens, with different aspects appreciated by each age group. Some historical notes and a bibliography are included in the back of the book. This is one of the graphic novels put out by the Center for Cartoon Studies, in their high-quality biography series. "
3587	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	One in a series of bio-graphic novels for youngsters, this book is mostly successful in it's attempt to provide another Helen Keller bio. I say mostly because the title seems backwards to me: it should be: Helen Keller and the Trials of Annie Sullivan, since so much of this book tells the reader what Annie's life was like as a child, her education, and her struggles with the Keller family as well as criticisms of her work with Helen. It was effective in its portrayal of the darkness that Helen lived in, and the warm embraces of Annie throughout their relationship.
3588	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Quite an extraordinary book. I usually give books I really like 4 stars, but there was something special about the way this book conveys blindness and a sense of communication by touch that I think would have been hard to pull off in any other medium/author; he's done such a good job of portraying that visually. The connection between teacher and pupil is well established, and the pacing is perfect. The panel designs remind me of european comics I read as a child, Herge's Tintin et al. Just great storytelling, highly recommended. 
3589	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The imagery used to convey Helen's isolation at the beginning of the book was particularly affecting. Like most Americans of a certain age, I'm familiar with the story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan primarily through the play and movie The Miracle Worker. This version of the story, by using pictures and words-as-pictures, really gave me a sense of what it might have been like to be Helen. I'd recommend it to anyone - beautiful storytelling that makes good use of the medium. 
3590	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I loved this. It was so engrossing! I'm familiar with many of the parts of the story, but others (like Annie Sullivan's time at the Tewksbury Alshouse) were new to me. The style is also really beautiful. Most of the action takes place in beautiful full color panels, but when portraying Helen's perspective the panel is black with blockier shape and a much looser style. Overall it was very effective and I really enjoyed it.
3591	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	It's great to see comics tackling something other than superheroes, SF/F, crime, or war. This is a wonderful biographical piece about Helen Keller learning to communicate. It's told in a unique, powerful way, and should be on the reading list of anyone who's interested in the potential of comics as a medium.
3592	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	If I was an English teacher, which I am not, and had a huge budget, which I would not, I would make this required reading for middle school! I now want to read everything from the Center of Cartoon Studies!!!!
3593	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Wonderful, quick read in cartoon format. Quickly goes over the story of how Anne and Helen met and the result, which for most Americans is fairly well-known. But I enjoyed the approach. This would be a great way to introduce Anne and Helen's story - or life and accomplishments - to children. 
3595	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is a retelling of Annie Sullivan’s work with Helen Keller. The narrative follows both Sullivan’s and Keller’s points of view. Sullivan’s letters are used as a narration tool for her point of view. Keller’s deaf-and-blind perception of the world is portrayed visually in an ingenious way. Everything is black except for Keller and whatever she is touching at the moment. There are very few colors, and the objects are fuzzy and indistinct blobs. As she starts to identify the things around her using letters, The objects take on clarity but are portrayed as words. For example, the word “door” is door shaped and placed where the door would be. “Table” is likewise portrayed as a table-shaped word. This is the first medium of telling this story that gives a glimpse into Helen’s world.  As an introduction to the education of Helen Keller, this text works well. However, it’s the same story that is told in the book, movie, play, etc., so it’s redundant for those familiar with her. Those readers will probably look more to the flashbacks of Annie’s trial-filled earlier life and her relationship with the administrator of the Perkins Institute, a school for the blind that Annie, who was partially blind, attended.  Here’s where my frustration started, though. Well, it started back in grade school when I first learned about Helen Keller. The story ends when she learns to communicate. So, yay, she can talk to people now, and she doesn’t throw huge fits when she can’t express herself. But what’s the point of learning about this? Yes, she overcomes adversity through the persistent help of a creative and dedicated teacher, but now she’s just someone who has the basic skills of your average first grader.  The awesomeness that is Helen Keller (and the true testament to Sullivan’s work with her) came later—as she used these skills to educate herself and become a fierce advocate and activist for the blind, women’s rights and suffrage, pacifism, socialism, and other radical left ideas. Regardless of whether or not someone agrees with her politics, Helen Keller had a profound effect on the United States and promoted changes that still exist today, but we present her as a girl who learned how to sign the alphabet.  If just once, during the many times that Helen Keller came up in school, someone had spent ten minutes talking about the things she did later, I would have understood why what happened at the well was so important. If this book included an afterword of a couple of paragraphs, it would have tied it all together.  So as amazing as this book is, and as creative and ingenious as the artwork is, it’s not doing anything but selling the regular story about a stubborn girl who learns to sign.  • No objectionable material: language, sex, drug use, or violence 
3596	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Annie Sullivan comes from the Perkins Institution for the Blind to work with Helen Keller, and blind and deaf girl with no way of communicating. Helen is wild and savage, trapped in a silent dark world. Annie, however, is no shrinking violet, and is determine to get though to Helen, despite the interference of Helen's parents.  This was excellent. Not only was the story beautifully told, but the visual representation of Helen's world was incredibly striking.  I have never read Helen Keller's The Story of My Life, or anything about Annie Sullivan, but of course I know the story of Annie Sullivan working with Helen and finally having the breakthrough at the water pump. I'm pretty sure I saw a movie about Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller, but I can't remember which one. That is all to say I didn't know very much about Annie Sullivan as a person, apart from her work with Helen, and it was fascinating.  Annie had a difficult childhood, dealing with the death of her parents, younger brother, and growing up in an asylum and poorhouse. She was also partly blind, and couldn't read until she came to Perkins and underwent several operations. Annie had a temper! She was not a patient person, which seems like the wrong sort of person to be a teacher, but she was actually exactly what Helen needed.  We learn about Annie's loneliness, and her close relationship with Dr. Michael Anagnos, the director of Perkins Institution. He was the one who sent Annie to Helen, and he was very proud of both of them. Annie got frustrated with Perkins taking much of the credit for Helen's achievements. Annie and Dr. Anagnos had a falling out over a story Helen wrote, and allegedly plagiarized, which I had never heard about.  Annie was often frustrated while working with Helen in Alabama, and it wasn't just Helen that was causing frustration. Annie lived in New England her whole life, and found the Southern way of doing things enraging. Annie was not one to hold on politeness and formality. She often became angry when she felt people were talking down to her, or didn't think she was smart.  I loved how Helen's dark world was represented. At the beginning, when things are from Helen's point of view, everything is dark and hardly has any form. Things continue this way, until she begins to put it together that things have a name and a use, and then her world starts to take on more defined form. It was a wonderful, beautiful way to represent how Helen's world suddenly opened up when she learned to communicate with people. Helen's world becomes more solid as she learns more and more. Once she understood what Annie was trying to do, Helen wanted to know the name of everything right away. It must have been amazing.  I highly recommend this one!
3597	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Premise/plot: Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller is a nonfiction graphic novel; it is a biography of Helen Keller's teacher, Annie Sullivan. The first scene in the book is a wordless sequence that continues for several pages: Helen Keller trying to eat off her teacher's plate and being made to eat off her own plate and to eat with a spoon. It's a contest of wills between the two, for sure. The first third of the book--at least--this struggle continues. Annie trying to have a break through with Helen Keller. How do you teach the concept of language, of ideas, of words to someone who can neither hear or see? If there is someone as stubborn as Helen, it is Annie. Together these two will have an impact on the world. The water scene occurs about thirty pages into this one. Instead of using this as the end of the story, Lambert uses this as the beginning of the story. The focus in this graphic novel is truly the EDUCATION of Helen Keller. I found this to be FASCINATING. The climax of this one surrounds the 'trial' of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan. Sullivan has been writing to her teacher/mentor. She shared a story that Helen Keller wrote, The Frost King. He was so impressed with this story that he tried to get it published in a magazine, only to be humiliated when he was told that the story was 'plagiarized.' Keller and Sullivan stand 'trial' before him and the school board. Were either guilty of knowingly copying a story and passing it off as original?  My thoughts: I really LOVED this one. It wasn't perfect. I would have loved it if the panels of this graphic novel had been larger, and if the font size had been larger. It was hard on the eyes. Especially since you're reading CURSIVE in a tiny print. Cursive and finger spelling. I didn't struggle with the finger spelling. (As a kid, I was so fascinated by The Miracle Worker that I learned the manual alphabet. And that's something I kept in my memory with the exception of x and z.) I read in the author's note that the cursive bits were taken from Sullivan's actual letters. So this isn't a flimsy biography, but a serious one.
3598	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Focuses on Helen's famous teacher, and makes good use of her actual letters. Annie was a wonderful writer, very sharp-tongued and full of prickly observations about the world, and you can tell that the author/artist liked her.  The story of Annie educating Helen has been told a lot but people generally don't focus much on what it must have been like for a sharp little Irish girl who spent her early life in horrifying conditions in an almshouse to go live with a very privileged family in the post-Civil War deep south. He includes many flashbacks to Annie's time at the Tewksbury almshouse, and the story of Annie's brother dying next to her in the night was unbearably sad.  He also does a wonderful job of portraying Helen's view of the world, and the process of learning. It was very powerful to see the thought bubbles over her head turn from a collection of finger positions to a picture of water itself, and I found very moving his illustrations of Helen getting a clearer sense of her surroundings and the natural world as she put names to things with Annie's help.  After reading the book, I could see why the author was so interested in the plagiarism scandal, even though it always seemed to me such a tempest in a teapot, since Helen hadn't actually submitted the story for publication or even as schoolwork, she had just sent it to Annie's mentor as a birthday gift. But it got to the issue that everyone in the education field was debating at the time: whether or not Helen was truly learning, or just mimicking.  Still, I thought it was odd that he ended on such a down note, with Helen doubting the source of her own creativity and ideas. He mentioned in the appendix that she never wrote fiction again, but didn't make any mention of her autobiography, essays, political speeches, other books, and in general wildly successful career as a writer. It made me wondered if he shared her doubt about the source of her ideas, which seems like a pretty harsh note to end on, and not one that is well supported by the record.
3599	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Imagine learning to dance. But you can’t hear the music. Imagine riding horseback. But you can’t see to keep your balance and not fall off. In her lifetime, blind and deaf Helen Keller learned to do both. She Our story opens with a little girl drawn without features, completely in the dark. She is angry, she is scared, she is combative. This is Helen Keller and this is her world. Enter Annie Sullivan, the woman who is hired by Helen’s parents to teach Helen to communicate. Annie grew up in an orphanage, and had vision problems of her own. She couldn’t read or write until she was 14. But she was strong and stubborn and determined to succeed. When she got to Helen, those traits served her well. Helen’s parents – well, mostly her father – didn’t care for her teaching style. The Captain insisted that Annie’s teachings bordered on abuse, and but her mother insisted she stay. Annie’s primary goal was to teach Helen that everything had a name. But how can she teach the word “cake” to someone who’s never seen one? How can she teach the word “doll” to someone who’s never seen one? Meanwhile, in a series of flashbacks, we learn a little more about how Annie grew up, and how she came to be the teacher that Helen desperately needed. But slowly, while dealing with tantrums and struggles and arguments with Helen’s parents, Annie’s methods began working. Annie made great strides in working with Helen. So much so that when she was 11, Helen wrote a story as a birthday gift to Dr. Michael Anagnos, director of the Perkins Institution for the Blind. But some people thought that the story was not Helen’s idea, that perhaps she plagiarized the story from someone else. Will this undermine Annie’s work? Will it devalue Helen’s progress? And will it bring down the man and the school that fought tirelessly for them both?
3600	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel is a product of The Center for Cartoon Studies. It gives readers an overview of the challenges Annie Sullivan faced in her own life (before, during, and after Helen) and the demons that haunted her all of her life (the death of her brother Jimmie in an alms house where they were placed as children, struggles with her own vision, legal issues surrounding the publication of her work with Helen).  Lambert doesn’t try to tell Annie’s story in its entirety—part of the appeal of the book it that it has an open ending that leaves readers yearning for more. Lambert does, however, compliment the story and challenge the reader with a rich bibliography and suggested reading list that is a combination of primary and secondary sources. Although the reading level is listed as 10+, the book has a depth that gives it definite teen and adult appeal.  This is an excellent example of the best of the graphic medium. The art does more than just illustrate the words on the page; it adds layers of meaning to the story and encourages the development of complex visual literacy skills by virtue of the author's artistic choices. The imagery at the beginning of the book is profound: the choice to illustrate Helen’s blindness through the use of simple shapes on a dark background, with touches of warm yellow for the comfort of food and cool blue for Annie’s arms when she first begins working with Helen is little short of genius. “Panel Discussions” at the back of the book fill in historical and background information and lend a layer of authenticity and authority to the work.  This is a book worthy of addition to public and school libraries.
3601	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	As a young girl, I loved to read about Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller, so maybe there's a bit of nostalgia in this graphic novel for me. Still, I learned new things about Annie and Helen, and the story is plotted in a new and original way.  The book nicely highlights the key points in both Annie's and Helen's lives, as well as gives some historical context to this era. It's a great introduction to these two people and can operate as a launching pad for further investigation and discussion.  The cover illustration makes the book appear as if it were for younger readers, but Helen's queries about the birds and the bees, and Annie's life in the poor house make it clear that the book is not for young children. As well, it is sometimes difficult to read the accompanying text: it's small and occasionally cursive.  That said, using the medium of a graphic novel allows the author to tell the story from both Annie's and Helen's points of view. Most of the book is shown as if the audience were watching Annie's life, but what makes the book so emotive is that is has some cells which show how Helen felt and perceived things. In addition, the book shows its readers the loneliness, intelligence and sheer will of both protagonists. They were two of a kind and by some miracle, they found each other.  Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller is a moving and enjoyable book to read and I recommend it highly.
3602	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Audience: ages 8 and up  Orphaned as a young girl and left in an almshouse for the mentally ill the nearly illiterate Annie Sullivan seemed an unlikely heroine when she entered The Perkins Institute for the Blind at age fourteen. However, her fiery temperament and unusual intelligence allowed her to rise above the hardships she encountered in her early life so that at age twenty she was selected to tutor a deaf-blind six year old, Helen Keller. The remarkable story of Annie's steadfast desire to teach Helen and Helen's own breakthrough and amazing success in life is a testament to both women's perseverance, and strength of character.  Though this triumphant story has been told in countless ways, Lambert's graphic novel stands out because of his perfect grasp of the graphic format. The reader is drawn into Helen's world which at first is dominated by blackness and vague, sketchy shapes; but, transforms into a world populated by words that have the power to transform the shapes into people, animals, and objects. Lambert's mastery of the craft is again highlighted in the ease with which he slips back and forth from the present story to Annie's memories with a simple, but effective change of color palette. The winner of the 2013 Eisner Award for Best Reality-Based Work and included in YALSA's 2013 Top Ten Great Graphic Novels for Teens, this book is recommended as an essential purchase for children, teen, and adult collections. 
3603	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"This is a really interesting graphic novel involving the story of Helen Keller, however it focuses more about her teacher, Annie Sullivan, more than on her. In this book, we learn more about Annie's backstory from her time at the Tewksbury Almshouse, to her time at the Perkins' School for the Blind (she was partially blind herself), all the way to how she became Helen Keller's teacher. We also learn about Helen's breakthrough with the water pump and how she realizes that everything has a name and go all the way to the publication of ""The Frost King"" which led to controversy about it being plagiarized. This graphic novel is, without a doubt, a biography because it talks about the lives of both Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. Companionship is one of the major themes here as it shows that Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan are not just teacher and student, but also companions. The age range is not necessarily kid appropriate as there would be some things in the book that would be considered as disturbing to younger kids, so the age range would start around more adolescence to young adult, but even adults would enjoy this. I gave it this rating because it was a very interesting graphic novel and it really taught me more about the story of the two historical figures. With this, I now know more about their story than I did before."
3604	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller is a graphic novel that depicts what life was like for Keller, being both deaf and blind. The book is interesting to read because in some scenes, there are no words written, as Helen could not verbally speak. For that reason, I think this would be a great text to use to introduce inferences, as well as discuss patterns of nonverbal communication. As I mentioned before, some scenes have no words, yet Helen or Annie might have angry eyebrows, or arms crossed, so readers can infer that they are indeed, mad about something. If someone has tears in their eyes, readers can infer that they are sad. By understanding how to read certain patterns of body language and nonverbal communication, students can learn to make educated inferences even when no written text is present. When using this book, and teaching this lesson, I would use an adapted version of Gallagher’s strategy called “Sometimes You Can Judge a Book by its Cover.” Basically, what she means is that you can learn a lot just by observing. By observing nonverbal messages in the text, readers can observe, or infer, how characters are feeling a lot of the time. I would have students choose a scene where a nonverbal message is present, and then explain how whatever that message is, reveals something about the character communicating it. 
3605	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel truly captivated my attention from the start! Helen Keller is faced with tremendous challenges and as the story progresses you see the effort and time it takes for understanding to occur due to inability to hear or see. These disabilities may seem to much for a child to grasp, but with the visual pictures demonstrating Helen Keller learning sign language, for example, it is shown at a level at which they can understand. I rated this book 5 stars due to the amount of knowledge gained due from pictures placed in chronological order. This book provides the opportunity for children to see a struggling child facing obstacles, but put at an appropriate level. Younger children can begin to understand the significance of Helen Keller, while older children can deeply feel the emotions from the characters and take away the foundational element that no hardship can define you. Some prevalent themes that are carried in this book include, determination and perseverance. These are seem at different level and within a variety of characters. The age at which this book is most suited for would be 10 years old and older due to the underlying messages and the implications that must me made. 
3606	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I thought this graphic novel was pretty great. As a biography, it appears to be well researched and primarily uses text quoted from Sullivan's letters. I really like the section of ""panel discussions"" in the back that discuss the various people featured and their presence in the book. It's perhaps a little slow and thoughtful for younger children who may desire a faster-moving story but Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller is really a beautiful story with a fresh, original take on Helen Keller. The illustrations add a quiet sense of poetics to the story, describing in images what the sparse text of a graphic novel could not. I love how they portray Helen's view of the world as she begins to interact with others in socially acceptable ways and view the world through language. The people are often drawn a bit ""ugly,"" if that makes sense, with lumpy faces and small oddly placed eyes, but I rather like that they are shown as human than idealized. The color palette is also a bit odd with greens, blues, and coral colors in soft and pastel tints. The overall piece is really quite extraordinary for a graphic novel."
3607	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This non-fictional graphic novel is about Annie Sullivan teaching Hellen Keller, a deaf and blind girl, to communicate and learn words and their meanings. I believe this book is suitable for children between the ages 8-12. While reading this book it was kind of hard for me to follow what was going on in each picture. However, I liked how it flashed back between the present and past and it brought you through the hardship of Annie's life. I like how the book was mostly about her and not all about Hellen's struggles. The main theme of this book is determination. You see Annie work hard to get Hellen to understand and she is adamant about teaching Hellen in her own way. Even though Annie had a hard life she was still willing to push some of those feelings down to focus on Hellen. But she also used some of those hardships and experiences in her teaching. Annie was hopeful that Hellen will understand words and their meanings so she didn't give up. And eventually you see the amazing transformation in Hellen as she begins to learn new words and actually understand the meanings and communicate them.
3608	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I can't even describe what this book has done for me after I finished reading it. It's beautiful! I haven't read a lot of graphic novels so this was very new for me and it I want everyone to read it. I love how this book explicitly showed the learning process of Hellen Keller. All of the panels and illustrations made this book powerful. I believe that any teacher would be encouraged after reading this and I believe that this book could be presented to any student who has an impairment and it can inspire them. I think children who are deaf could read this relate so much to this and enjoy looking at the American Sign Language that the author included. Joseph Lambert is a genius! I think this book should be read for anyone older than 8 years old. There are some issues that will be hard to understand for a younger child but anyone else could understand the life of Anne Sullivan as a teacher and Hellen Keller as a student. I consider this book a biography and it will be great for students to learn about Hellen Keller's childhood and then later read about her contribution to women's right and social justice. 
3609	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Many people are familiar with the story of Helen Keller, a child who contracted an illness as a baby that left her blind and deaf. Through the dedication of her teacher, Anne Sullivan, Helen learned how to communicate through sign language, reading, writing and eventually could speak.  The graphic novel approach to the story of Helen's life is portrayed very artfully. We start with a dark world, that features Helen and anything that she comes in contact with. Eventually the world opens up as she learns the names of all the things around her. We also learn about Anne Sullivan's childhood trials, juxtaposed with Helen's world slowly opening up. The story ended a bit abruptly, I thought, but the notes at the end of the book were helpful. I enjoyed The Miracle Worker, and I think this is a great book for people who want to learn more about about Helen Keller.  Booktalk: Imagine not being able to see or hear. Perhaps you are able to talk, but you can't because you haven't heard anyone speak before. Nothing makes sense to you. Until one day, a teacher changes your life.
3610	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel tells the story of Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. It begins shortly after Annie Sullivan begins working as Helen's tutor. The author provides both Helen's and Annie's points of views, with Helen's perspective starting out in darkness. This changes as Annie teaches her. The book also jumps back and forth from the present to Annie's past beginning when she lived in an almhouse house with her little brother in Massachusetts and later when she is sent to the Perkins Institution for the Blind. One thing that jumped out at me was the anger that Annie Sullivan felt. I'm familiar with the story between Helen Keller and Anne Sullivan but never realized what an angry individual she was.  This would appeal to young readers who are looking for more information on Helen Keller or Anne Sullivan. The book also includes a list of notes at the end of the book with more information about key characters and places.
3611	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book was simply amazing. Even though it's over 100 pages, I sat down and read it in one sitting, completely absorbed and captivated by the story. This story is one to add to any classroom's nonfiction, biography or graphic novel section. I really enjoyed the illustrations and easy to read comic strip set up. This book is definitely child friendly and educational in a creative way. This is a quality text that would be ideal for fourth or fifth grades. This book could be used as a read aloud but most likely should be used as an individual choice in order for the student to grasp the power of the illustrations, sequence and point of view. The way the story is written it gives the reader a first hand look at the power of Hellen and Miss Annie's relationship and makes one feel like they are actually there, a part of the experience. It also allows students to play into the emotions through the sketches and use of colors. 
3612	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was one of the first graphic novels I think I have ever read. It was very interesting I was really taken away by how the art went along with the story and ended up being the thoughts of a girl who couldn't learn well, and her teacher was very strict on her at first, but as they spent more time together they grew and understood each other more. This book seemed to be more geared toward older children anywhere from 8-12, to understand the concepts of the difficulties both the young girl and teacher had. I rated this book well because I thought it was very interesting how the book was presented along with the art for it, showing the young girls thoughts which added a huge contribution to the book. I thought the dominant theme was persistence and sticking to your goals, the teacher sought out to help the young child and even though times she thought of giving up she didn't. She impacted this girls life tremendously, she was the only one who got through to the young child. I 
3613	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Recommended for grades 4-8 This is an amazing graphic novel! In this story about Helen Keller's young life we are focusing more on her teacher, Annie Sullivan, and her backstory. The artwork in this book is well thought out. When we begin the book all passages that are from Helen's perspective are drawn with a black background with a featureless childlike figure of a solid color as the main image of each box. When Helen meets Ann their perspectives are woven together, but it is clear to the reader which boxes represent Helen's point of view. And the more Helen learns and experiences, the more we see her self image begin to sharpen. Flipping between Helen's present and Annie's past we learn how Ann Sullivan spent her early years. With passages from Ann's own journals spread throughout the book, we are directly linked to the history behind this story.
3614	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	It's story that everyone knows: Annie Sullivan taught blind and deaf Helen Keller how to understand sign language and then how to speak. It's repeated so often that it's easy to forget what an amazing thing Sullivan and Keller did together, especially given that Sullivan herself was in her early 20s when they started working together.  This fantastic graphic novel brings all the wonder back into the story; the style of the drawings didn't appeal to me at first, but the way Lambert uses visual storytelling to convey Helen's experience is wonderful. I got chills when Annie and Helen had their first breakthrough. It's also a refreshingly unsentimental look at Sullivan's life before Keller, which was pretty horrible, and at some of the more controversial moments in Keller's early training.  Highly recommended.
3615	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Why I picked it up: on the list for the YALSA challenge and many doing the challenge have raved about it.  Annie Sullivan, a graduate of Perkins school for the blind with some sight, travels to the south to be the teacher to a young girl named Helen who, after an infection as a young child, is both blind and deaf.  Honestly, I didn't really like it. I felt like it didn't add much to what I already knew about Annie Sullivan & Helen Keller. The back and forth timelines between Annie’s past and her present with Helen didn't really work well for me. I didn’t care for the majority of the art. And I found the inclusion of some aspects of their history over others puzzling. Overall, not a winner for me. I rated it one star because I take the ratings literally and I didn’t like it.  Contains: nothing objectionable  Challenges: YALSA challenge: great graphic novels 
3616	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Using mostly small panes, Lambert tells the story of Annie Sullivan and her deaf and blind student, Helen Keller. Beyond the initial story (the 'water' breakthrough, which I learned in elementary school), Lambert spends some time discussing Helen's potential plagiarism. All of that was new to me, and I wished that THIS was the text I had as a youngster, when I first heard about Helen Keller.  I learned a lot about Annie, and bonded with her in a way I didn't when watching that really old movie about Helen. Plenty of background is given, and both Annie and Helen's strong personalities shine.  The back matter provides a panel discussion, boasting even more background information. A bibliography & suggested reading guide is also given.  My 12 year old son liked it, would give it 3.5 stars. He says that it's nice, but it's just not his preferred subject matter.
3617	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was the wonderful story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan. This story took us on a journey through Helen's life and how Annie became such a big part of it. We saw Helen struggle and achieve goals. Helen and Annie went on to become good friends. Each box in this story shows how Helen is improving and understanding more concepts. The genre of this book is a fictional, graphic novel, picture book. I rated this book a five because I absolutely loved it. I had never read a graphic novel until this one. I will admit at first I didn't want to read this, but as I kept turning pages I was more and more interested. Loved this book and loved to see how much Annie Sullivan truly helped Helen Keller. I believe the main theme of this book is loneliness-felt by Annie and Helen. Another theme is friendship and determination. This would be a good book for grades 4-6. 
3618	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The graphic novel Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller begins with Annie's arrival at the Keller's home and continues through the plagiarism charges brought against Helen. Annie's childhood and challenges teaching Helen are plainly shown. Annie is spunky and sassy. Helen is believable and complex. Some of the illustrations provide an interpretation of how Helen perceived the world. In those panels, gray nothingness gains form as Helen learns words and color joins as she learns descriptors. The tone is emotionally intense, and - when describing Annie's childhood - heartwrenching. Neither Annie nor Helen has an idyllic life. I found the book engaging since I read Helen Keller's autobiography last summer.I recommend Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller to middle school grades through adults. 
3619	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This comic book bio is sooooooooo well done! It's as much a bio about Annie Sullivan as is it about Helen Keller. The book weaves their stories together well and reveals the events in Sullivan's life that built her character.  Famous scenes such as the breakthrough at the water pump are included as well as an interrogation in which Annie and Helen are accused of plagiarism.  Much research went into this book and sections of Sullivan's own journals/letters were used as narration. The artwork was very effective in that the panels that give readers Helen's point of view are shadowy and simple.  Notes in panel form follow the story and gives readers a background for the events of the book. Highly recommended for grades 6-8.
3620	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	1: Wow! What a powerful book! I really liked how it was written from the perspective of Ann Sullivan and gave some brief glimpses of what her life was like. I brought this book home while visiting family and my 13 year old sister, who is anti-books picked it up and read through the whole thing! She got to the end and wanted to know more about Anne and Helen. This is a perfect example of how this book could be an springboard for further reading and exploration of the topic.  2: This book is written for sixth grade and higher. I could see it being used in a Social Studies lesson or for personal reading for students who are interested in historical lives or events.  (2012, May 1). School Library Journal. http://titlewave.com/search?SID=1c430...
3621	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	There is good and bad in this book. The graphic idea of the book is awesome...the use of darkness and the growing sense of being and the way the pictures show how the pictures and relationships formed in Helen's mind. The two problems I have with the book are that they use script, which, while probably more realistic, is hard for many children to read. Also, the jumpiness of the story was hard. For me, the flashbacks drew away from the story instead of directly relating to what was happening in the present.  Overall, however, I enjoyed the book. It is an excellent graphic representation of how the world was to Helen Keller, and how it grew and changed through the teachings of Annie Sullivan.
3622	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Hellen Keller is a very insightful and fascinating picture book that tells of the beginning Helen Keller's and Annie Sullivan's relationship and shows how helen progresses in her learning from Annie along with some insight on Annie's past. In this graphic novel there are intriguing drawings of what Helen feels and begins to see through Annie's teaching. I gave this book a five out of five because of the amazing drawings and interesting context in which the children can easily learn more about helen keller. I think that the themes of this book could be finding oneself, or exceeding expectation, annie and helen both exceeded (what was thought by others) limits put on their lives. I think the age at which this could could be read would be around 9.
3623	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Copyright Date: 2012 The graphic nonfiction novel Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller by Joseph Lambert captures the life of Annie Sullivan before becoming Helen Keller's teacher. Annie faced so many challenges in her own personal life and then continued to face challenges when trying to communicate with Helen Keller. This books does an amazing job visually portraying Helen Keller's disability and the amazing ability to communicate solely on touch. I paired this with the twin text The Value of Determination: Story of Helen Keller. I chose this book because it illustrates the determination in facing challenges. It has great cartoonish illustrations that are perfect for young children!
3624	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel takes a new spin on the story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan by focusing on the teacher- not the student- and while surprising it tells the story with a fresh perspective. While reading the story, we see Annie's dark childhood which she struggles to suppress throughout her trails with Helen. We are also taken into Helen's adolescence and Annie's struggle with plagiarism. In many books focusing on Helen, there is no mention of Annie facing consequences for crimes. This graphic novel tells the story in a way that many children may be more interested in then a book with walls of words. We see many visual representations of the obstacles that Annie and Helen must face throughout their lives. 
3625	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was a powerful tale. I knew a lot about Helen Keller (I even played her in a scene in high school) but I didn't know as much about Annie. I didn't know about her life in an almshouse as a small child - and the conditions she faced. I didn't know about Helen's fiction writing experience, or how she was subjected to the charge of plagiarism and never wrote fiction again.  The way the images depicted her blindness and the way she was cut off from communication was amazing. I cried several times as her understanding blossomed and the relationship between Annie and Helen grew.  This is a must read.
3626	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	In this graphic novel, you learn about how Annie Sullivan comes to work with Helen Keller. The story shows both Annie's days with Helen and her life growing up.  I like how the story tiles flash back and forth between story and what the world might look like from Helen's point of view. I also think it's cool that when Helen is reading objects, the author uses a font that is similar to how Helen wrote. I learned some interesting facts about Helen and Annie and it would have been nice if the story was longer. The book concluded with facts abotu the characters and places named in the book. This is a nice intro for kids into Helen's world.
3627	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel focuses on the early relationship between Helen Keller, and her teacher Annie Sullivan. The images effectively convey the frustrations, both physical and mental, that faced this pair when they began working together. Through flashbacks the author provides glimpses into the early life of Annie Sullivan. She was orphaned and sent to live in the Tewksbury Almhouse where she endured a lonely, neglected life until being accepted into The Perkins Institute for The Blind. Although this is not a complete biography of either woman, the author paints an intimate portrait of the start to their long and well documented relationship.
3628	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The images in this graphic novel are vivid and effectively illustrate what life may have felt like to Helen Keller. The contrast beween Helen's dark, empty world, and the bright and beautiful outside of her is extremely powerful. I especially enjoyed the progression of Helen's language skills, and as words appear in Helen's world and she acquires knowledge of words and she understands more the illustrations become more complex as well. I enjoyed following Annie as a character, and that we got to know something of her life as well. In order to understand Helen Keller, it is very helpful to understand Annie, and knowing about her life makes the whole story richer.
3629	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	If I knew nothing of either Annie Sullivan or Helen Keller, this might not have been the best first choice to find out, but the graphic format is very creative. I was especially impressed with how the illustrator alternated between Annie Sullivan (with full color and detail) and Helen Keller (beginning with more basic colors and very little detail, but as she learned more words, the pictures also became more rich). My biggest complaint is the skipping around - at times it was hard to tell where in Annie and Helen's timeline the story was taking place. There were multiple flashbacks into Annie's young life, which gave some nice insight, but created a very non-linear story.
3630	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was a little bit of a different read for me; my first graphic novel. I think this was a good story to portray in graphic novel form because you as the reader really got a sense of what Helen's world was like. It was not exactly an easy read for people who have never read graphica before but it was easy to adjust. It is not a fast read because there is so much going on in each little square; there is a lot to take in. It is an interesting way to learn about Helen Keller and it is a good way to get reluctant readers to read because it is a book with many pictures and more comic style reading. Overall good read!
3631	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel is all about Helen Keller and the trials they went through individually and together. The genre of this book is a historical fiction graphic novel because it is set in the past and also has pictures for every scene. I rated this book a three because I feel like the book drug on and it could be somewhat confusing to follow all of the flashbacks. The dominant themes of this book is what is right and wrong because this comes up with the plagiarism issue. This book is best suited for fourth or fifth grade students since the flashbacks can be hard to understand. This book would be especially good for reluctant readers since it is a graphic novel.
3632	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	At first I was skeptical about this book. Once I began to read it, I really enjoyed learning about Annie Sullivan's and Helen Keller's struggles in life that they had to overcome. It was neat to see that it not only showed the struggles that were endured but it also showed the positives. This book is probably best described as a book for 5th-8th grade. I believe this because at times it can be difficult to follow Annie's letters to Mr. Anagnos and what is happening in the story at the same time. Overall this book was very well put together. I only gave it 4 out of 5 stars due to the fact that I thought it was hard to read some of the text due to the font it was written in. 
3633	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	In this book Annie Sullivan tries to help Helen to communicate. In the book they use certain parts of the texts from her letters and some they had to take out some words. The book shows how Helen learns and how Annie helps Helen. Annie helps Helen learn manners and all together this book showed good graphics about how Annie teaching Helen and how Helen learned. Annie had to change the way she taught Helen because Helen never learned her first way by just saying whatever it was she was trying to teach.
3634	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Fantastic. I already loved Joseph Lamber's style, and he did not disappoint with his interpretation of this story. I especially loved how he shows how Helen Keller gradually gets more understanding of the world around her by showing the blobs that represent her understanding slowly become more defined and gain labels. The lettering is fantastic as well, and I can only assume Lambert did those as well as the coloring himself since the only other credits on the book are for editors.  You should read this. It's quick and delightful (if somewhat sad considering the subject matter).
3635	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	i've read about helen keller and anne sullivan at different points in my childhood, always with a sense of mystery of what the fog of relating to the the world without sight or sound could be like. this little graphic novel captured not only what creating form out of formlessness could have been like, but also--so much more interesting!--the relationship between anne and helen. now thinking about their lives in terms of attachment it is incredible to think of how someone develops a sense of identity and purpose out of great deprivation. what a lovely book this was!
3636	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This novel told the story of two women named Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan. Annie had a rough childhood, complicated by the fact that she was visually impaired. When she was 20, she was offered an opportunity to be a teacher for Helen, who was blind and deaf. The genre is a biography, and a graphic novel. I rated this novel a five because I have always been intrigued by Helen Keller's story. This novel allowed me to learn more about her and Annie. The dominant themes are overcoming challenges,perseverance, and inspiration. I think this novel is best suited for ages 10-13.
3637	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	While sometimes the text was hard to read because of the cursive handwriting and even Helen’s own writing which while true to the context and time period wasn’t easy to see.  Yet what was phenomenally done was interpreting how Helen likely felt learning what she didn’t know and how Annie’s perseverance and tenacity worked though it provided insight into their relationship, the volatility of Annie’s own anger, and the strained relationship with Helen’s parents. Plus! Who knew about Helen’s story submitted for publication by her principal only to find out it was plagiarized- but who knows the real answer or whether she internalized the story or was coerced by Annie to pass it off as her own.  A fascinating introduction to the pair for a younger audience who might not know who they were.
3639	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I continue to be moved by this amazing story of Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller; their relationship and sheer resilience are just plain beautiful. I enjoyed the art, especially when it presented Helen's POV: beautiful shapes and shadows. 
3640	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I loved the way Helen Keller's view of the world was interpreted from the very beginning. The art style was amazing and even though the read was quick, I kept getting sucked into the art and taking long pauses on certain pages.
3641	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I've always been fascinated by the story of Helen Keller's teacher and this graphic novel closes follows the book I read in primary school about Annie Sullivan. Recommended for it's sparse vocabulary and spare illustrations as well as an insight into Helen and Annie's world.
3642	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The sections from Helen's point of view go from interesting to extraordinary. I'm not sure the flashbacks in the first third of the book do the characters too many favors and they do interrupt the narrative tension between Helen and Annie.
3643	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Quick read, but I learned things I hadn't known yet. Nice drawings with interesting interpretation of Helen's world
3644	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is a well done biographical graphic novel well suited for grades 4 and up. The primary focus is on the life of Annie Sullivan and her own experiences as a child and young woman. There are shifts in time between her youth and time with Helen that can be subtle and require some focus on the part of the reader to catch. I like how the author incorporated pieces of her diary and letters in to the story. The notes section at the back is excellent and gives some additional background info that actually might be good to read before starting the story.
3645	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Helen Keller was trapped in a dark, silent world until Annie Sullivan came to be her teacher. Annie, partially blind herself, struggled to communicate with Helen and to let her know that everything has a name. Finally, they had a breakthrough and Helen began to learn at an amazing rate.  I've always been fascinated with Helen Keller's story, but this book really didn't live up to my expectations. The jumps back and forth between Helen's present and Annie's past were distracting and made the story hard to follow.
3646	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	It is an interesting graphic novel because it tells the story of Helen Keller. When I was in middle and high school I knew a little bit of her but this book tells more about Helen and Annie's life in details. This novel even catches attention of the reader who is reading it because it shows the actions of what is going on. The part that got my most attention was when Annie does not let Helen do anything until Helen listens to her and behave. Everybody has a past they would want to or not want to share. I would highly encourage it to people whom like to read about one's life.
3647	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel was quite interesting. I believe I began reading it in class but didn’t have time to finish it so I checked it out again because it was really good and everyone was talking about it as well as being brought up multiple times during the class. It does a great job of using amazing illustrations to show the relationship of Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. It shows the life of both Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller as well as the way they interact throughout their relationship. I would recommend this book for grades 4 through six.
3648	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The book seems to cut off almost all of a sudden. I felt like I was left hanging with no real resolution. I also had a love/hate relationship with the artwork. Some of it, such as from Helen Keller's perspective was fabulous and added a rich perspective to what she experienced. I also loved the consistency of the sign language through her hand and the line indicating that this is where the conversation was taking place. Perhaps, this is picky, but I did not like the drawings in general or how the people looked. I also felt the boxes and the font was too small.
3649	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic biography is the very reason why I am confused when someone says they are against graphic novels. I would have never read a biography about Helen Keller or Annie Sullivan. This graphic made the information accessible to me and the illustrations helped me understand the depth of Helen's initial seclusion from the world and later her astounding revelations and how her world was expanded and formed from one wonderful women's diligence. I too felt the novel ended very abruptly and would have liked more.
3650	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This blew me away, unexpectedly; it's one of the best comics biographies I've ever read. The way Helen's internal experience is communicated visually is remarkably effective and moving. I know the broad strokes of Helen Keller's story, but I had no idea that Annie Sullivan's life was so full of hardship, nor any visceral sense of the enormous struggle of wills that she and Helen engaged in during the early days of their partnership. I finished the book feeling further humbled by an already extraordinarily humbling story. Excellent pick for upper elementary and middle grade readers. 
3651	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	An informational graphic novel about Helen Keller and Anne Sullivan. This book is a good read for younger grades who also have the capacity to follow just pictures. There is one particular part where even I had to google what exactly happen. I liked this book because for children it is probably easier and more interesting to read than a non-fiction with just words. The pictures helped the story move along. The ending a little abrupt, but there is information in the back of the book about the people and place in the story.
3652	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I thought this book was good in terms of showing what it took to make Helen Keller so educated, that it wasn't just a quick year of learning. I am not too big of a fan when it comes to comic books, so it made it a little harder for me to read and like because of that. I also didn't like that it kept switching back and forth from Annie to Helen. It made it confusing at times since there was no clear transition. This book would be considered a comic book, and for a child that doesn't mind them and really likes pictures, it will be a good read for them.
3653	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	while i love the story of Helen and Annie, i was not a fan of this book. maybe i am biased against graphic novels from my upbringing but i just was not a fan. Don't get me wrong the picture were great and it told the story, however the format was hard for me to read. If you have a youngster in late elementary or early middle school who is in to graphic novels the this would be a great book to learn about the incredible journey of Helen Keller. For someone with dyslexia, such as my self then this format is very overwhelming. 
3654	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The Trials of Helen Keller is a graphic novel that describes the life and education of Helen Keller. Anne was able to teach Helen language by signing into her hands. The book uses pictures to illustrate how Helen viewed her world. This book is great for ages 8-12 because of the amount of reading and themes of perseverance, adversity, and disability. I rate this book 5 out of 5 because of the incredible picture this book paints in your mind of how Helen saw her world in her mind. I would highly recommend this book
3655	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Great graphic novel. Short and fast read, but a beautiful portray of how an epiphany can change the individuals. Once Helen understood how to communicate, her behavior changed drastically, and allowed her to blossom into a emotionally successful individual. The book shows in pictures and dialogues, how the events took place, and it is a great portray of the struggles and perseverance of both teacher and student. This story is great for late elementary/early middle school students, and is great for thinking about sense of belonging and self esteem. I recommend it.
3656	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Perfecto! This comic shows off what the comics medium can really do when you set it free. I have always loved the story of Helen and Annie, this rendition gives you much more insight into Annie's heartbreaking upbringing as well as careful renditions of a greatly scrutinized historic friendship and lesson plan. You haven't lived until you see you how amazing comics can relate how a deaf/blind person would have no language, and slowly, then suddenly, discovers one.
3657	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Wow! Just wow. Joseph Lambert did amazing work in presenting the story of Hellen Keller and Annie Sullivan in a new way. I've never been a huge fan of Ms. Keller's story (though I do not deny that she did amazing things) but seeing that story presented this way did wonders for that perception. I can honestly say I learned more and gained more appreciation for Ms. Keller (and her teacher) from this book than I have any other place. I'll be looking for more of Mr. Lambert's work for sure. 
3658	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This version of the Helen Keller story focuses on Annie Sullivan's background and experiences. I was really struck by her brutal honesty and frustration with those around her. The illustrations were fascinating, those depicting life as we see it juxtaposed with the dark blurs representing Helen's view of the world. This book really shows how Annie and Helen struggled with outside forces, making the story much more fascinating than I had expected.
3659	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	OMG, I am all a twitter - finally a graphic novel that I was able to enjoy. I think it was probably because I am so familiar with the Helen Keller story. In general I don't care for the graphic novel genre - I am just so much more verbal than visual, but I liked the style of the drawings in this book and the succinctness with which the story is told. The panel discussions in the back were very interesting.
3660	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I thought at first that this book was going to be just a graphic novel version of the Miracle Worker, and was glad it wasn't. It explores Anne Sullivan's childhood quite a bit and gets into the accusation of plagiarism made against Anne and Helen at Anne's old school, both of which I didn't know about before. I really appreciated the panels depicting Helen's deafness and blindness, but other than that I'm not sure I cared for the drawing style very much.
3661	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I very much enjoyed this graphic biography of Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. The graphic format was a great way to illustrate the transformation of Helen's understanding of the world as she learned language.  Recommend for middle and high school students who like well-done graphic novels and would be interested in nonfiction. This book does make me want to learn more about poorhouses like the one Annie Sullivan spent time in.
3662	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I'd give this a 2.4 out of 5. As cute and as touching as some of the illustrations are in this thing (I especially appreciate how Helen is depicted surrounded by dark smudges to depict her blindness), this did not add anything particularly meaningful to what I learned in the movie versions of her story. If anything, the teacher came across as bitchy in the graphic novel and someone I could only respect less after having read this. 
3663	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book really openened my eyes to the powerful possiblities of a graphic...not really novel, since this is nonfiction, but a graphic book. The depictions of Helen's blind-and-deaf world as she experiences it are captured uniquely, including her developing perception of language and herself. I also loved the excerpts used from Annie Sullivan's journals as she struggled with representation and her own demons. A fascinating, memorable book. For adults or mature kids.
3664	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I felt that the art in this graphic novel was excellent. The images that showed all of the words for everyday objects really emphasized just how much Annie Sullivan had to teach and Helen Keller had to learn.  I'm not sure how easy of a sell this would be to teens based purely on the cover. The story is definitely written for the age group but I can see students thinking the cover looks ""little kiddish"". As sad as it makes us librarians....books are definitely judged by their covers."
3665	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I didn't really like this book. I Found it confusing and hard to follow. I think it's intended for 4th or 5th grade. If I was to use this for a classroom I would need to give the students lots of background information before beginning the story. I would also have to keep checking to make sure they understood what was going on. I think graphic novels are great if they are easy understand. It's a nice book just not my favorite. 
3666	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Some people will tell you that a child can't learn from graphic novels. They say they are too much like comic books. To all of those people, I say: Read this book with your children. It is the story of Anne Sullivan and Helen Keller. In this graphic novel, excellent artwork is mixed with a powerful story. You get a chance to see inside Helen's mind. As she learns more, the picture becomes clearer. Great for all ages, even hesitant readers. Check this out.
3667	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I liked this book because it was a graphic novel. This can be introduced to reluctant readers. The pictures can be a helpful tool to understand what words could be in the bubbles and the concept of the story. I would recommend this book to 3rd and 4th graders because it has a lot of connections that younger students would have a hard time realizing. I rated this book at 4 stars because although it was interesting, the words were very small and there was too much dialect. 
3668	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"This book just caught my eye in the library today. I was very familiar with Helen Keller's and Annie Sullivan's story, as portrayed in The Miracle Worker, but this book took it past that. I like how the pictures showed the darkness Helen Keller felt, and I also felt like I learned a lot about the struggles Helen and Annie continued to have. The Miracle Worker makes us think the ""water"" discovery was Helen's and Annie's ""happily ever after,"" but there were many other struggles to face."
3669	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I really liked this book, that's why I gave it a good rating, because it shows you the different kind of struggles an individual with physical disabilities faces. This book is able to bring out all kinds of feeling in the reader, including compassion, pity, hope, and unconditional love. The overall theme of this book is perseverance. The ability to persevere despite the circumstances and human condition. This book is a graphic novel, best for middle to high school grades. 
3670	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book depicted the life of Annie Sullivan, her past and her trials while teaching Hellen Keller, a blind a deaf girl, how to communicate. The genre of this book was biography and it is for older ages around 10 to 13 years old. I rated this book 3 stars because I enjoyed reading it and it was interesting how the pictures expressed a lot of the story without using words. Some major themes in this book were perseverance and hard work. 
3671	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	via NYPL - This very strong book depicts the early years of Helen Keller's relationship with her teacher Annie Sullivan, while exploring Sullivan's relationship with the school, Helen and the Keller family. It's very well crafted - the illustrations from Helen's POV are jarring and immediate, very raw, capturing the effect of a little blind girl's vantagepoint on the world. The characters are well crafted, the dialogue rings true, and the artwork is striking.
3672	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I really enjoyed this graphic adaptation of the life of Annie Sullivan and her work with Helen Keller. This goes beyond the basic, ""Miracle Worker"" storyline and gives a rich historic lesson on how Helen's emergence into the ""world"" was filled with challenges on every front. Very interesting and thought provoking read."
3673	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel effectively approaches the issue of integrating the deaf-blind state into the narrative. Especially impressive is the scenes dealing with Helen's comprehension from inside her world. Learned some new things about Annie Sullivan and her estrangement with her alma mater and old principal. Very good read, and drawn in a style that seems fitting for the era. 
3674	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Four words: I loved this book. The beautiful artwork and clear storytelling made me tear up on multiple occasions. Poignant, gorgeous, wonderful; it deserves all the good, fuzzy words I can throw at it. This biography illustrated the story of Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller perfectly; the pictures complementing the words. Perfect. If I could, I'd have given it ten stars.
3675	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Annie Sullivan comes from the Perkins Institution for the Blind to work with Helen Keller, and blind and deaf girl with no way of communicating. Helen is wild and savage, trapped in a silent dark world. Annie, however, is no shrinking violet, and is determine to get though to Helen, despite the interference of Helen's parents.
3676	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The story is very well told, and gets the facts pretty spot on. The only provlem I have is the art work. It tells the story well, but I just cannot stand the look of it. I don't like the way the characters look. I find it wholly ugly and hard to look at for too long a period of time. It's an art style that I just do not like. Shame, because the rest of the book is good.
3677	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A moving, un-sentimental version of the Heller Keller story focusing on her teacher Annie Sullivan. Focusing on the dark side of their lives and journey together, this graphic novel tells a unique and subtle version of a story many of us have heard before. My only major criticism was tha the panels are very small, lessening the impact of the art, but overall this was great.
3678	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Good use of the graphic medium to communicate Helen's transition from isolation to her connection with Anne Sullivan. I also like how this narrative seems to focus more on Anne Sullivan's life and how it shaped how she interacts and teaches Helen Keller. Use of text styles from the original sources is also a nice touch.
3679	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I love The Miracle Worker, so I was pretty sure I would like this. I didn't know a lot about Annie Sullivan, and this book filled in a lot of the blanks. My only quibble is that I think the flashbacks and time jumps would be a little hard for my 4th graders to understand, but I think it's a perfect match for 5th grade and up.
3680	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A great introduction to the life of Helen Keller and her teacher Annie Sullivan. The inner strength and bravery these women displayed in their lives is unfathomable. Tweens and teens will be able to relate to the two historical features in this graphic novel which features writings from both Helen and Annie. 
3681	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	An argument in favor of the graphic novel. This book is able to visually portray the move from darkness and loneliness where Helen starts to the literate enlightenment which she eventually achieves with Annie's help. I was struck again and again by the clarity and poignancy of the images in Helen's mind. So well done.
3682	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is an absolutely amazing book! The story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan is amazing as it is, but this book brings it to life. The illustration is amazing. The illustrator was able to effectively portray what Helen was thinking through drawings. It is an amazing book that I would recommend for everyone and is age appropriate for middle schoolers.
3683	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Quality graphic novel! Well researched, some of the excerpts in this novel come straight from Annie Sullivan's journals. Excellent visual displays of Helen Keller's perspective in learning about the world around her as a person who is blind and deaf. I think schools should make this fun graphic novel required reading. 
3684	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Excellent, well-done graphic novel about Helen Keller's teacher, Annie Sullivan. I think this book would be excellent for fourth grade and up. Students can research other famous people that were hearing impaired in addition to this book. The book is dialogue heavy, but provides readers with a better understanding of what Helen Keller was really like.
3685	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I really love how this depicts Helen's inner awareness, and how it grows once she grasps language concepts. I didn't know the bit about the story Helen wrote, and that was interesting. It does end pretty abruptly, which is too bad. I found myself contemplating how brilliant Helen must have been, and what she might have been like without her disabilities, or in a modern time, or otherwise.
3686	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Beyond excellent. Joseph Lambert manages to share the story of Helen's early language learning in a way that makes you really feel what it might have been like for her, from the early feelings of isolation, detachment and loneliness to the moment when her teacher's hands couldn't work fast enough to spell the words for the things around her..  I wish this had been 5000 pages long.
3687	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I am not a huge fan of graphic novels so this was definitely not one of my favorite books. I do think it was interesting to hear a different side of the Helen Keller story than I've ever heard before. It also does make you think a lot more than you normally would reading a book. But for me there is just to much on one page to take in. This is a really good book for higher elementary and up. 
3688	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is a great option for reluctant readers to learn about Helen Keller. They may even pick up some new, interesting facts. However, I was not a fan. I would have preferred to see the information presented in the standard format with strong adjectives and verbs. Sometimes I felt like it was taking several pages to tell a part of the plot that could have been told in a paragraph. 
3689	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"Well done, and a very interesting take on a biography of a well known story. I found it somewhat hard to follow as I was going along, and had to pay really close attention to every image to be able to tell what was going on. The small details and how you are able to ""see"" inside Helen's mind is very cool though. "
3690	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"Really enjoyed this graphic novel, I think that it not only is engaging but it also has some very solid information that can be used. I would use this in a history lesson for anywhere from 3rd-5th grade. The only thing is sometimes the font is small and the flashbacks are not ""announced"" so you would have to go over that with the students, to make sure they can fully understand the book. "
3691	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I read the play ""The Miracle Worker"" in middle school and since then I've always been fascinated by Anne Sullivan and Helen Keller's story. This comic adaptation is great, and it taught me a lot more about Anne than I knew before. I especially liked the visual representation of Helen's world and her perceptions. "
3692	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The title is correct. The graphic novel focuses on the trials of the two women (tracing Annie's childhood too), and does not reveal the accomplishments of later years. Haunting almost... the book ends with exhaustion and upset when the pair leave Perkins after the dispute over Helen's writing entitled the Frost King.
3693	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I truly have to say that the book, ""Ann Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller"" is truly a remarkable book.Even though this book has so many pictures, it still portrays the amazing story of Helen Keller. This book shows all the trials and tribulations Helen wen through. But it didn't stop in her darkest times, the book carried on to exemplify her rejoicing moments. This was a great read!"
3694	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is another great book I enjoyed reading with my Children's Literature class. The discussion we had regarding this book was very deep and informing. Talking about everything from the different panels to the actual text to the front and back cover really helped to bring the story alive and take it to a whole new level. 
3695	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is probably one of the most effective graphic novels I have ever read. The set up of the book does sucha great job of communicating the purpose of the story. I love the dark background and the profile images that really show how alone, dark, and loss Hellen feels. The novel does a good job of showing the audience what Hellen experienced, something that is hard for us to imagine.
3696	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Really enjoyed how it made learning about Helen Keller and Anne Sullivan, FUN! I thought the pictures made it fun for kids of all ages, while it still taught them what they need to know about them. I really enjoyed the pictures because it allowed me to personally see the emotions behind the things that were being said. 
3697	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"This was done so well. I really loved the way the illustrations worked with the story and I liked the way it touched on an aspect of Sullivan and Keller's life that I hadn't heard about before - the trial over Helen's ""plagiarism.""  I did feel like it ended very abruptly, but I really enjoyed it overall."
3698	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	3.5/5  A graphic novel depicting the story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan. At the end of the book, there are a few pages of written text to explain some of the events more completely. One thing that I did not appreciate is the fact that the book calls Alexander Graham Bell an American scientist, when in fact, he was Scottish.
3699	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Excellent book but one caveat...I think it would be very difficult for someone to understand the situation if they had never heard of Helen Keller. Definitely do not use as an introduction to Annie Sullivan/Helen Keller. 
3700	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"Very neat portrayal of Helen Keller's education that goes beyond the ""Miracle Worker"" story and into her later life. I particularly like how the author depicts Helen's understanding of herself as a shadow in darkness that's gradually shaped and developed as she learns."
3701	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I was hooked on the first page. I would probably have given it a five simply based on that. The way the author illustrates visually how Helen Keller experienced the world was ingenius. Both of these women were amazing, and I thoroughly enjoyed learning more about them.
3702	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I loved this graphic novel! The artwork really expresses a lot about the characters. I also liked that the story gave me of Annie Sullivan's story. Great incorporation of American deaf-blind educational history as well.
3703	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Great book! The comic strip may be a little difficult for a lot of my fourth graders to follow - it's quite a bit more complex than Peanuts! It makes me want to check out other books by The Center for Cartoon Studies. 
3704	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I thought that the book was a good change of pace. I loved the pictures but I didn't really know how to read the book. But, thanks to the summaries of each chapter in the back i fully understood the whole story.
3705	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	An engaging story. I particularly liked the way that Helen's world is depicted, and how it changes as she acquires access to language. It also includes excerpts from Annie Sullivan's actual letters.  
3706	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Book one of this reading challenge for me. I wanted to have that feeling of accomplishment quickly so I started with a graphic novel. While this is mostly told from Anne's point of view (the teacher) I love how the artist represented Helen's point of view. How do you draw what a blind person sees?
3707	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel was so fascinating. I was so emotional drawn into Annie and Helen's lives. And the way that the artist drew Helen's perspective was so visually striking, I found myself thinking about life without sight and sound and being frightened by it. 
3708	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I liked the way Helen Keller's consciousness was portrayed and that the story did not end with the famous water revelation. The ending was abrupt and I wished there was an epilogue to find out more of their story. YALSA Hub Reading Challenge
3709	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Wonderful art and a well researched story. They way the artist depicts Helen's perspective was inventive and really served the story well. Would be a good companion for school curriculum or bio book reports.
3710	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Lambert's visual portrayal of Helen's experience of blindness and her learning process is amazing. Also a fresh, realistic take on Annie Sullivan's character, beyond the saintly cypher usually dismissed in the telling of Helen Keller's story.
3711	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Joseph's exquisite drawing style make every page of this book a delight to read. Also the visual representation of Helen Keller's world is portrayed excellently. A story well suited to graphic representation. Great stuff. 
3712	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The art in this book really brings home the message and helps the reader better understand Helen's plight. It must be very difficult to face the hardships both women faced, and this book helps to bring that to light.
3713	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was an excellent graphic version of the Helen Keller story. I think this GN will make the story more accessible to a wider audience. The illustrations are nicely done, although I do believe this book is for a younger audience than the YALSA award would lead one to believe.
3714	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Brilliant graphic treatment of Annie Sullivan's work with Helen Keller. Throughout the book, quotes from Annie's letters and journals are used; examples of Helen's writings are included as well. The author's creativity in showing Helen's point of view is particularly striking. 
3715	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel was great! We see how Sullivan helped Keller learn language, and it's fascinating. How do you teach adjectives or verbs to a blind and deaf girl? My biggest criticism is the ending was a bit abrupt. 
3716	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The theme of this picture book is about a biography. I liked how the author in this book told the story in the form of a graphic novel. Also, I enjoyed how the pictures and phrases complemented themselves to tell the story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan.
3717	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel is surprisingly accurate. I really enjoyed the creativity of the author and the illustrator. It is easy to get a sense of Helen's perspective through the illustrations. The format of the narrative is unique as well. 
3718	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A different look at an amazing story told through graphic novel. My only complaint is that when Annie Sullivan is writing letters they are in script and in very small font and size making it hard to read w/o pulling the book close to you face.
3719	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book ends a bit abruptly, but does a good job painting a portrait of Annie Sullivan as a character and of trying to depict the sensory experience of a young Helen Keller. Recommended for those two things. But it feels incomplete. I felt the book was just winding up when -- wham -- it's over.
3720	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I saw an excerpt of this in the The Best American Comics anthology and this book didn't disappoint. I really LOVE, LOVE, LOOOOOOVE how this was executed. The only thing that kind of felt hurried and uncompleted was the ending (but I guess all good things can't go on forever).
3721	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I would give this book six stars if I could! This book shows what a masterful storyteller Lambert is. More importantly, no better medium exists for sharing and showing Helen Keller's experiences. Bravo!
3722	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Very good graphic novel telling of the story. Got into Annie Sullivan's background which was fascinating. Loved the illustrations-especially how they captured Helen's frustration before she had a means to communicate. I highly recommend it.
3723	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book shows the adjustment and transitions that Helen Keller faced through series of pictures. I found it hard to follow and boring. I think for young children this would very hard to understand. 
3724	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The book was about the life of Annie Sullivan and her student Helen Keller. It goes through the process of Annie teaching Helen Keller. The book was a little hard to read and a little chaotic at times.It definitely would be best for older children.
3725	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This story is about the relationship between Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan. The book is in the format of a comic strip and follows their stories closely. Personally, I found it difficult to read, and found it hard to read and follow. Perhaps can be used for students who like books in this format.
3727	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I thought this was an authentic retelling of Anne Sullivan's story and the visual way in which Helen Keller's experience was portrayed is cleverly done. However, the story ended very abruptly and the words / font were tiny and difficult to read. 
3728	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	It turns out that Helen Keller is an ideal subject for a graphic novel biography (though this isn't the full story of her life)
3729	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The art was a bit too blocky and uneven but I liked the use of dark colors that slowly brightened as Helen learned to understand words. A familiar story told in a new and exciting way. 
3730	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Good but could have been better.
3732	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A great way to learn about the amazing relationship between two extraordinary women.
3733	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Tender and insightful, I really enjoyed this story of Annie Sullivan's struggle for herself and Helen Keller. A lovely graphic format of a familiar story.
3734	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A great companion to The Miracle Worker, giving an insight to what it must have been like to be Annie Sullivan.  RIYL biographies RIYL overcoming adversity
3735	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Terrible cover, but solid book. Confident styling and richly drawn characters with sometimes complex motivations. Panels are so small with tiny cursive writing makes it sometimes hard to read.
3736	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Interesting art to portray Helen Keller's lack of eyesight and hearing in this graphic novel biography of the early life of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan.
3737	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Absolutely visceral, emotional, and intellectual reaction to this book. Fantastic, amazing! Please read it.
3738	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Deeply affecting.
3739	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Really loved the treatment here - learned a little more from a differet angle about a story I have heard, growing up in Alabama, over and over. 
3740	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I love the story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan. This gave me a new perspective on Annie's life.  Also the use of pictures to show Helen's point of view was interesting.
3742	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Font was a little hard to read, but enjoyed the story telling through sign language. 
3743	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I really liked the frames that showed Helen's experience and how this changed as she gained access to language. A very creative and interesting portrayal.
3744	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I thoroughly enjoyed this. Clever and effective. 
3745	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Fantastic storytelling with an innovative 16 panel grid used throughout. Lots of personality too. I've loved every book in this series that I've read. 
3746	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Beautiful, clever imagining of the development of communication through Helen's learning process. Was also fascinating to read about Anne Sullivan's early life. 
3747	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The Center for Cartoon Studies presents a wholly original take on the story of Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller in the fifth book of the award-winning series of graphic novel biographies. 
3748	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Really well-done, both artistically and narratively. 
3749	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Top Ten Biographies for Youth 2012 (Booklist) Top Ten Graphic Novels for Youth 2013 (Booklist)
3750	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The picture is this book are very cruel looking. the story to me was very hard to follow. I was glad I knew the story but if I did not I would have been lost. 
3751	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The good problem with this book is that now I want to read more about Helen Keller/Annie Sullivan. Any suggestions out there?
3752	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Loved how it told Annie Sullivan's story of her childhood; Annie spent the rest of her life with Helen Keller.
3753	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I didn't really like this book.It was to boring.There were no exciting or funny things in this story.I did like the picture that went along with the story.All in all I didn't really like this book.
3754	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	fairly sad, but interesting and informative http://sarahsbookjournal.wordpress.co...
3755	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Gritty, inspiring and engaging -- a must-read for anyone who's the least bit curious about Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan.
3757	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was FANTASTIC! What a perfect medium for telling this story that has been written about over, and over, and over again. Highly recommended to any age! 
3758	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was such a beautiful book- I loved both the images and the story. 
3759	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	One of the most amazing examples of what graphic literature can do, showing you how Helen can 'see' as she learns language. 
3760	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	quick read. different scripts for different people. almost a teen read.
3761	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Very well done graphic novel.
3762	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A lot is packed into this biography yet it is digestible. Both Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller seem to be represented fully - especially the dramatic beginning of their relationship.
3763	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	**Read as part of the Chicago Public Schools Battle of the Books 2014.**
3764	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Read and except and loved both the approach to the material and the use of color.
3765	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book teach you anything is possible and friendship is important.These 2 people create a bond between them.
3766	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Interesting read. Nice way of representing blindness using the graphic novel format.
3767	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Well-done, but a bit depressing/frustrating at times.
3768	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Got it to preview for D and became transfixed. 
3769	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Very interesting and unique, I like the perspective it's from and I like the flashbacks of Annie's childhood. I just wish that Helen Keller also had a perspective on this 
3770	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The medium of comics presents a unique method for demonstrating the story from Helen's point of view, which makes this a great work.
3771	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The most inspirational book of my life; I read her story at age 7 and everything I could find about her-and some many many years later she is still my inspiration.
3772	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I learned a lot, but why does the font have to be so hard to read? (Ugh, probably so you can understand what the two of them went through.)
3773	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	so proud to be a teacher!
3775	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Really good, but very strange ending. Almost feels like there should be a part 2. 
3776	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I loved this! Not sure yet if it's appropriate for Marie- she has trouble reading cursive.
3777	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I really don’t know much about Helen Keller, other than she was deaf and blind from the age of two, and essentially had no way of communicating.  This is the graphic novel version of her story but mostly, it’s the story of feisty Annie Sullivan, who was Keller’s teacher. Sullivan was also vision impaired and had a very tough childhood- she was abandoned by her father, spent some time in an awful alms house (where they may have sold the bodies to use in book binding or tanned them for shoes... Google Tewksbury hospital and you’ll see!), lost her brother to TB and then finally made her way to the Perkins Institute for the blind. And kids these days complain about slow internet...  Sullivan became Keller’s teacher, and then over time, her confidante, companion and friend. Sullivan’s sheer tenacity and stubborn will, coupled with Keller’s natural intellect meant that amazing things could happen and Keller became the poster-girl for the Perkins Institute.  This is a Disney graphic novel, so you know it’s going to be a little (like a lot) sugar-coated and pro-American hero, but it does cleverly use excerpts from Sullivan’s journals and I do love the way that Helen’s sensory isolation is depicted- this little rendering of this little child all alone in blackness and darkness is just very clever and also very sad. I did have to Google how the bloody hell Sullivan actually taught her- maybe this is assumed knowledge? In the pictures it looks like it’s done in speech, but it wasn’t, Sullivan taught Keller finger spelling in her palm and every Spurs was laboriously spelled out. Quite amazing.
3778	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I really enjoyed reading his book. I think that the graphics complement the story really well. I like how Joseph Lambert shows the drawn sign language in blue above the picture of what Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller are doing. I thought it helped to really get the entire picture of what was happening. Annie Sullivan’s life was pretty intense. Like the title suggests, she had many trials, and not just with Helen Keller. It was interesting to read about someone I was aware of but knew pretty much nothing about, except that she worked with Helen Keller. Annie Sullivan’s story by itself, even without her experience with Helen Keller, was very interesting and could stand alone as a great read. Adding her experience with Helen Keller as well made it all the more an interesting read. I can totally understand how Annie Sullivan could have had her walls up and have been so hardened to while at Perkins school. But perhaps Annie Sullivan’s history and hardships are exactly the fight that was necessary to give Helen Keller the teacher she needed to have her breakthrough. It was nice to see how despite everything that Anne Sullivan went through, she felt accomplishment in her experience with Helen Keller. I recommend this book. It is a very quick and easy read. It was also very informative.
3779	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	90%  I never would have expected a graphic novel to so elegantly capture how it is to teach/learn language to the deaf-blind, and I am so pleased to be shown otherwise! The depiction of Helen Keller's point-of-view through vague shapes and colours was an absolutely brilliant idea, and really helped drive the point home of how incredibly monumental a task it must have been to get the concept of language across to a child without our two most prominent senses.  I especially appreciated that her teacher, Annie Sullivan, was treated of equal importance in this book; I remember learning about Helen Keller in elementary school, but Miss Sullivan's role was severely downplayed (actually, I'm not sure I knew about her existence at all before this book).  I only wish this book was longer! It sparked a curiosity in me to learn more about Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller in her adult life, but learning via graphic novels is just so much more interesting and fun. Oh, and I suppose I also wish there was a table in the back for the sign language alphabet, since it was shown in the book quite a bit. Other than that, a superb learning experience!
3780	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I am somewhere between 3 1/2 and four stars on this. I loved the structure of it in graphic novel format, especially to portray artistically how the world must’ve come across for Helen Keller. And I love how they added layers of color and shapes to what she could see the more she learned from Annie Sullivan.  However, the ending was incredibly perplexing to me. I honestly thought that there must be pages missing from the book because the storyline completely dropped off and I am trying to figure out where the resolution is. I mean, I see some of it. It left the reader with unanswered questions, which I can understand especially if they are trying to get you to read more about Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan on your own; But the issue with Annie Sullivan and the other teachers at the school was completely and totally just left hanging. So what happened? Was there a deadline that had to be met and they just couldn’t finish it? I just did not think that this graphic novel ended well. It could’ve been done so much better. especially if it’s intended for kids. They are going to be wondering what in the world happened to the end of the story.
3781	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	To my knowledge, this is the first graphic novel I’ve ever read. I really hope it won’t be my last, because I loved it! I’ve been intrigued by Helen Keller’s story for years, and this is a fresh, new way to experience her story (and find out about Annie Sullivan’s story, as well!). I loved everything that was crammed into this book—backstory as well as the main story, which was tastefully done and not over-done, quotes from Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller’s writings, and more. Although the art style wasn’t my favorite ever, it delivered the concepts perfectly, and my favorite panels were the ones from Helen’s perspective—I loved watching her world expand as she started learning from Annie rather than fighting against her. If you’re looking for an interesting way to read about these women’s stories, I’d highly recommend this book. I picked it up one afternoon and found myself sucked into it, to the point I couldn’t put it down when I had another job come up. My eight-year-old sister also found it quite engaging and spent an hour or two reading it one afternoon. An enjoyable read!
3783	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I was a bit disappointed by this graphic novel.  The art isn't that good and the lettering... the cursive and the peculiar way Helen writes made my reading a bit more difficult. Yeah, I confess: I hate reading cursive in English. I mean, I like the first page and the way the author tried to picture Helen's world. I didn't like how he depicts people.  The plot is a bit confusing because it tells both Annie's and Helen's stories and the two mixed up. There are a few pages dedicated to Helen and then, without notice, the story flashbacks to Annie's childhood. Both led extremely unfortunate childhood, by the way.  I learned something more about Helen Keller though. Before reading this novel she was just a name.  This book is currently being sold on Amazon.it for 593€ plus 20€ shipping fees... There's something really wrong there! I got my copy from Amazon Warehouse Deals for 8,60€. It has a small rip on the back cover but I don't care.
3784	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The second of two books I have read this summer regarding Annie and Helen and their years after the aha moment with 'water', Joseph Lambert's graphic novel was wonderful in how it flowed, and how it showed readers a side of Annie Sullivan most do not get further information on when learning about both figures. We see what made her brilliantly stubborn, and completely empathetic, in her rewarding approach to Helen's language acquisition.  I was also pleased that the author showed Annie's opinion on the work of Alexander Graham Bell, and how he tried his hardest to eliminate the use of American Sign Language (ASL).  When I become an interpreter in the early education, library, and community setting and are asked what books I would recommend to students (Deaf, Hard of Hearing, or Hearing) that are interested in or learning about Annie and Helen, this will be one of the titles I will give.
3785	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	“Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Hellen Keller” is very good. The illustrations are beautiful, and I like how they give the reader a sense of how Hellen experienced the world. “Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Hellen Keller” is a heavier retelling of Hellen Keller and Annie Sullivan’s story than the film version of “The Miracle Worker.” This graphic novel goes beyond the point where Hellen realizes that the finger spelling means something and covers some of the challenges that both she and Annie faced after Hellen started learning how to communicate. The graphic novel also takes the reader back to some painful parts of Annie’s childhood. The story is fascinating, but be warned, it ends at a sad point in Annie and Hellen’s lives. One of my favorite parts of the graphic novel was the last two pages where historical facts about the people, locations, and events portrayed in the graphic novel were given.
3786	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I learned of this book through the book jacket or something connected to Thoreau at Walden, which, in short, I liked.  This one I was a little skeptical of simply because I'm not terribly interested in the story of Sullivan and Keller. (I know! A teacher doesn't get excited by Sullivan and Keller? Maybe I just didn't have a great experience with The Miracle Worker or something.)  Anyway, this book really delivered. The way in which Lambert represented Helen's perspective with darkness and bold text and Sullivan's relationship to her former school were brand new ways of seeing the story. If I had been exposed to this retelling of the story first, I think I would've had a whole different view of the pair from the start. I'd recommend this to young and old alike as a strong representative example of a creative comic interpretation of a non-fiction event.
3787	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I love this story of Annie, and how it blends diaries, letters, and larger contexts (and all the conflicts). The pacing, the jumps in time and place -- all so masterful. (I read this basically in three large gulps.) I didn't love the depiction of faces (a bit too hard for me to read as ""face""), but how the figures were presented, their gestures and postures, was so compelling, it didn't much matter.  Seeing Helen's view of the world (as darkness, with sporadic letters) was super moving. The icing on the cake.  I grew up reading biographies and I am sure I read one of Helen Keller -- but this feels like the real one. (Of course they are both real, but hey. I'm all about Annie now.)  (A very very tiny note: on the page with information about the Center for Cartoon Studies, there is an exclamation point where there needn't be one. This book doesn't need that kind of emphasis!)"
3788	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Very refreshing to hear about that side of the story that have rarely been told: How Annie Sullivan, Helen’s teacher, perceived and experienced her growth.  Annie is a young teacher, partly blind herself. She had a very difficult and sad childhood, causing her to have a bad temper and the difficulty of controlling her emotions. She’s perseverance and focused about Helen’s training, but also she suffers from her past and the dramas she endured.  Besides the powerful story that we would expect, I was impressed by the graphics on how the silence, loneliness, and other emotions experienced by Annie or Helen were depicted through graphics.  I am really glad that I borrowed this book from the library for my daughter although it turned out to be difficult for her age and I myself enjoyed reading it.
3789	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This comic-style story focusing on the life of Annie Sullivan and her challenges with Helen Keller are certainly a page-turner. I picked it up based on the art and my interest in how those like Helen Keller learn to communicate. It can be difficult to read visually (some small print), but it gives the reader backstory into Miss Sullivan's childhood and how she came to work for the Keller's in their child's education. We also get to see an idea of how Helen saw her world that took some imagination and helps someone better understand the world of the blind and deaf.  This is a must-read for the art, the style, and the story.
3790	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Blown away. I learned so much about Annie Sullivan; what an amazing, stubborn, passionate girl. She grew up as an orphan in an “almshouse” amongst the rats and the dead and when she got to move into a school for the blind at 14 years old, she could barely spell her own name, yet went on to give Helen the tools to live a vibrant, successful life... by spelling. We get to see before and after that miraculous transformation through the artwork in this graphic novel, which I wouldn’t call beautiful, but the story and symbolism in the art is heart-wrenchingly so.
3791	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Annie Sullivan taught Helen Keller to communicate while being deaf and blind. Along with this, flashbacks to Annie's education is tied into the book and creates a good conclusion. The theme of this book, I feel, is perseverance and dedication, because that is what Annie had to do in order to successfully teach Helen. I rated this book a three because the story line is good and interesting, especially since it is based on a true story, but I am not a huge fan of graphic novels and would have rather read this in a chapter book or picture book.  Genre: Graphic Novel Age: 3rd - 6th Grade
3792	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was a fantastic graphic novel. It really made me think deeply. It wasn't a simple story, you really had to look at the pictures and think about what was said for it to be fully understood. This book is about Helen Keller, a girl who is blind and deaf, and her teacher Annie, who is also pretty much fully blind. Helen's parents weren't very keen of Annie and they would let Helen do anything she wanted pretty much. However, Annie did finally connect with Helen after many struggles. I think it would be a good read for middle school and high school. Genre: graphic novel
3793	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	You think you know this story, but this is the most amazing representation of it I've ever seen. It was so powerful to show Annie Sullivan's childhood alongside the story of her work with Helen Keller. I've never been particularly interested in their story -- probably overexposed to it in grade school -- which just tells you how remarkable this book is. I wouldn't have ever decided to read it except that I opened it as I was working on a cart of books at the library, and I was instantly hooked. I'm hoping this is the first of many graphic biographies from Joseph Lambert.
3794	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I didn't know much about Helen Keller, except that hers was a relatively common name for kindergartens when I was growing up in Mexico.  This books fills some of the voids regarding Keller's childhood, but the focus is on her teacher, Annie Sullivan, another remarkable woman I hadn't heard of, and the role she had on Keller's earlier development.  The art is fascinating. The way the author draws blindness and the realizations Keller was experiencing is perfect. Awesome book.
3796	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I thought that this was a okay book. It has wonderful illustrations, especially when the book depicts what is going on in Annie and Helens mind. The use of color and images are great for really understanding what the reader is trying to say. The book teaches a great lesson of never giving up anf not judging a book by its cover. 
3797	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A graphic novel detailing the life of Helen Keller and her teacher Annie Sullivan. It presents the story in a way that may be able to be enjoyed by a younger audience due to presenting it in a graphic novel. It also goes into detail about a darker time in Helen's life that is not spoken about often. Overall good for a wide range of students . 
3798	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Helen Keller is one of my favorite historical people, so I really liked this book. I also look up to Annie Sullivan as a teacher and educator, and admire the patience, perseverance, and dedication she had with Helen. This book gave some insight into Annie Sullivan's early life, and I learned some things that I did not know prior, which is why I liked it. The graphics really told us a lot, and symbolized elements of the story, but I wish it would have went farther into Helen's life. There was so much more I wanted to read about, and it seemed like it ended too soon. I would recommend this book for ages 6-9 as it is quick and easy to read, and actually quite informative. 
3799	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	What attracted me immediately to this story were the panels that illustrated Helen's point of view. Lambert also did smashing good job of showing Annie's frustrations with Helen and her family. This is a great introduction into the life of Annie Sullivan. Definitely makes me want to learn more about her. Take your time with book. The panels are worth savoring.
3800	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Helen Keller is a well known figure that lost her hearing and her sight around the age of 2. Annie Sullivan was hired to be her tutor. Over the course of this book we get to see the life of Helen Keller and the great impact that Annie Sullivan had on her life. She was able to break down the dark walls of the world, so that Helen could live. This is a great biography book for grades 3rd-5th. 
3801	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This awesome graphic novel based on Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller is a great biography that teaches students about the life and story of Helen Keller. The pictures help to really develop and enhance the story and storyline. This book is great for reluctant readers, and the graphics really help for readers to understand the struggles Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan had. 
3802	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This Graphic Novel is about Annie Sullivan and her life experiences, and how she helped Helen Keller learn and grow. This Graphic Novel does a good job with colors representing different things. This book is geared towards fourth grade because the symbolism is a bit advanced for third graders. This piece is well drawn and written, which is why I gave it a four star rating.
3803	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The graphic novel I am reviewing is Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller by Joseph Lambert. This is a historical graphic novel about the two girls, Annie and Helen. There are two story lines, one is about Annie Sullivan as a child and the other is about Helen Keller as a child. Helen Keller was a girl who learned how to communicate and read even though she was blind and deaf. Annie Sullivan was a partially blind girl who later became Helen’s teacher when she was older.  I think that this book is a great read. It is an especially good read for people that are interested in history. A big reason why I like this book is because the illustrator does a good job at illustrating what the world looks like to everyone that is not blind or deaf and then it switches to what the world is like for helen without sight or sound. The way the story is written also makes you want to read more and learn more. Also, if you don’t know much on this topic it is a great way to learn more about it. Finally I think that this is a great book and I give it five stars out of five. 
3804	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is a really well done graphic novel. I really enjoyed how the pictures helped the reader to visualize what Hellen was understanding and learning. Their are a lot of details in the book that allows the reader to take in information visually. I would have a third or fourth grade class read this book on their own and then discuss it as a class. 
3805	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	As a graphic novel, this book is easy to follow for readers ages 7-12 and above. There are themes within the story and the illustrations that progress throughout the story and give hints as to what is happening behind the scenes. You truly get a sense for how much Annie can understand where Helen is coming from.
3806	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	An exceptional book. A leap into Helen Keller's life and her friendship with Annie that is just staggering and amazing and touching and heart-breaking too. Learning to communicate for a child that is blind and deaf is giving them the world. And it offered us such an insight into an exceptional human perceptions and inner life.
3807	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I'm not a huge fan of graphic novels (because I forget that the images are just as important as the words), but I cannot imagine a better way to tell this story than as a graphic novel. I loved learning about these two women and how their relationship developed. It was so cool seeing how Annie taught Helen and the patience she had. It inspires me to be like that in my own teaching practice.
3808	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Let me start by saying: I sobbed through 80% of this book. The way the illustrations depicted Helen’s dark world was outstanding and moving. The way you’re watch her learn and “see” the world around her truly moved me. The information about Annie, Helen and both their upbringing and learning through adversity was inspirational. I highly highly highly recommend this graphic novel to everyone. 
3810	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I liked this book and I learned some new things about Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan (how did I forget that she was also visually impaired?!). I’m not sure why it ended where it did when obviously Helen had so much more life ahead of her. Even if it just covered her childhood, it would have been better than ending on such a low note. 
3811	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I thought this book could be used for 4-8 grades. I liked how this book used pictures to convey how Helen was feeling. It was so powerful to see it in pictures instead of plainly reading a biography. It was also an interesting story about Helen's tutor who wasn't much older than her.
3812	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is an absolutely incredible book that focuses Annie Sullivan's incredibly interesting life and her interactions with Helen Keller. The detail of sign language and the other modes her teaching style made this stand out as the best of the INCREDIBLE BUNCH FROM THE CENTER FOR CARTOON STUDIES.
3813	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"While the cursive writing was a bit hard to understand, I love that I got to see what Annie Sullivans life was like before she came to help Helen Keller. I just knew of the movies and the famous ""Water"" scene, but nothing more of that. 10/10"
3814	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book displays the narrative story of Helen Keller and includes both their points of view. This book would great to read as a read-aloud or to have in the classroom library. I think 4-5th graders would appreciate this book and learn a lot from it.
3815	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Greatly exceeded my expectations. It wrought so much empathy for both Sullivan and Keller. They faced and overcame so many obstacles and this GN did an excellent job of presenting a very human look at both women. 
3816	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is a unique take on a story that has been told a lot. I understand the intention behind the artistic choices here, but I did not personally like them. I had never heard the plagiarism story before, and I thought that Annie Sullivan's personality was captured well. 
3817	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	4.5  Very cool illustrations depicting different sensory experiences. Fascinating story. I enjoying seeing details of the teaching process.  Ending felt abrupt, but I didn’t really mind. The notes in the back of the book helped resolve a bit.
3818	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Graphic Novel for Young Adults. A book told from Annie Sullivan's point of view, about her meeting, learning how to reach Helen and finally winning Helen's lifetime friendship. 
3819	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I've always loooved Helen Keller's story, and this graphic novel gave a cool new perspective to one of my favorite stories!!
3820	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is the uplifting story of Annie Sullivan's troubled life and how she forms a strong emotional bond with her student, a young blind/mute girl named Helen Keller.
3822	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Well worth reading even if you are already familiar with the story. The drawings from Helen's perspective are just fascinating.
3823	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I was really moved to tears by this book. This true story will occupy a lot of space in my head for a long time to come.
3824	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Creative use of imagery to depict young Helen Keller's world without sight and sound. Beautifully rendered and successfully shows how the close bond between Anne Sullivan and Helen Keller developed.
3825	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The nuances in both art and writing were wonderful. Loved this.
3826	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I love the artist's interpretation of how Keller experienced the world. This lovely graphic novel humanizes these two people and it was nice to be reintroduced to them after so many years.
3827	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I was not very fond of the pictures, but I did enjoy the story. 
3830	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Such an interesting way to portray the story of Helen Keller and Annie Sullivan. I'm not really used to such picture/cartoon books, but I learned a lot about this story that I had not known before.
3831	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Confusing  This book didn’t seem to be formatted for kindle books, at least using an iPad. Parts of the words or page were cut off. It was difficult to follow.
3832	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Really interesting take on a well known story and addresses the plagiarism!
3833	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A quick read to learn more about Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. I definitely learned new information.
3834	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book focuses on Helen's famous teacher. Annie was a wonderful writer and full of prickly observations about the world, and you can tell that the author/artist liked her.
3835	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Nice style, cute book.
3836	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	1. Loved this! 2. The pictures really portrayed what Helen was going through. 3. Now I want to visit Alabama and see her home. 4. The descriptions in the back were very helpful and interesting. 5. I read Helen Keller's book in high school so I guess I had forgotten that Anne was such a spitfire. 6. There is a play about them that I really want to read too. 7. I keep trying to put myself in both Helen and Annie's position and I just can't imagine the resilience of either. 8. I feel so sorry for Helen about the plagiarism and that she never wrote fiction again.
3837	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I would suggest this book for ages 9-14. Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller cleverly uses pictures and text to convey the struggles of Ms. Sullivan and Ms. Keller. The book follows their journey of literacy, diplomacy, and identity. It has themes of commitment, perseverance, pride, hope, curiosity, identity, and love.
3838	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Oh, this one got me right in the heart.  I knew nothing of Annie Sullivan, the young woman who was Helen Keller's lifelong teacher. This is a short biographical comix about Sullivan, who had a very difficult life indeed. Told with gentleness, humanity, and care, we jump back and forth between Sullivan's work with a very young Helen Keller, to Sullivan's own childhood in a western Massachusetts poorhouse.  The book could have had larger font and less cramped panel ordering, or maybe I'm just getting old. But, really, a phenomenal story.
3839	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Surprisingly dark. This is a story more about Annie Sullivan than Helen Keller. Emotional, deep, and quick, it offers a glimpse into the life Sullivan led and how her experiences shaped her as a person.
3840	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	My first impulse after reading Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller was to find out who had helped Joe Lambert make the comic. Initially, I chalked that up to my hyperactive cynicism and every ugly part of my personality, each of which Lambert had so expertly contrasted with Annie Sullivan, the main character of this, the undisputed best comic of 2012. Self-help books tell you that the behaviors that irk us the most are the ones we see reflected in our own lives, and while I’d buy that, I’d wager that what drives us even crazier is seeing a person–a real one, with emotions and struggles and all the rest–whose selflessness and capacity for concern so completely dwarves our own as to render our most basic daily actions the province of unearned luxury. Real heroism is rarely applauded while it occurs, the admiration comes afterwards. When life throws us amongst those who actually sacrifice themselves, body and mind, we’re more likely to recoil in fear.  Like I said: that was my initial feeling, and a few days, I abandoned it. It wasn’t my own petty inadequacies that Lambert’s comic forced me to acknowledge, it was the subtle way he presented the synergistic relationship between two minds for me to observe, two minds working so closely together that it humbles the word intimacy. Never before has a comic brought so close to bear those dusty what-are-we questions of philosophy, by showing us how one woman’s absolute faith in her own abilities taught another human how to be. To be challenged by the relationship between Annie and Helen is to realize how tender and magic the design of one’s mind truly is, and how blessed we are not to have to design its creation on our own.  It’s more than just the miracle worker stuff, of course, and Lambert’s use of a particular incident from Keller’s post-therapeutic years brings a telling, troubling question to bear, one that he chooses (rightly) to leave as unanswered as it must have been for Annie herself. Where does Helen really begin? Someone whose adolescent period of unbiased, unblinking ingestion was extended past all but the most disturbed upbringing, a woman whose capacity for original thought remained without audience, and then with an audience of only one, in a language the two of them constructed? (This is a brusque description of the two women, easily punctured–it’s the problem that consumes us, not the particulars.) By the close of the book though, the lack of stock answers seems both unsurprising and satisfying, a conclusion effortlessly achieved by the contagious nature of Annie Sullivan’s unsentimental stoicism. This was everything that comics so often claims it can be–mature, intelligent, beautiful–and yet so rarely approaches. An unrivaled triumph.
3841	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was a quick, easy read. It was surprisingly effective to present Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller's stories in a graphic format. I learned parts of their story that I hadn't encountered before, which was a pleasant surprise. And I passed my copy along to a friend so she could enjoy it as well.
3843	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"This biographical comic follows the life of Annie Sullivan, Helen Keller's teacher and lifelong friend. Truly more of a story about the life of Annie--before, during, and after working with Helen--although so much of Helen's life story is wrapped up in Annie's. Suffering from near blindness herself, Annie sets out to teach Helen the manual alphabet, and help her learn to communicate with the rest of the world in meaningful ways.  This sequential art biography shows Annie's time growing up in an almshouse in Boston with her sickly younger brother, and how she comes to work for the Kellers in Alabama. Always quick to anger, Annie struggles to get through to both Helen AND her family, until a breakthrough occurs and the world opens up to her young pupil, but not without teaching Annie valuable things about her own life and experiences.  While I did not always love the art style in this book, I did enjoy how things were portrayed. For example, most of the story is told through Annie's point of view, but readers are also exposed to Helen's. She is depicted, in these instances, as a human-shaped thing, with very little detail--no eyes, hair, fingers, surrounded by total darkness--but as she learns from Annie, her ""inner self"" is gradually more detailed, reflecting her greater understanding of the world, and of herself as a person.  What I did not love was that the text in each panel was so small, requiring me to squint at times. This is a book that likely must be read close to the face... I also wish that the panels themselves were larger. They are very uniform in that each page is covered in about 20 small rectangle-shaped panels, with extremely little variety. I was longing for at least half- or quarter-page spreads. Still, this remains an example of outstanding sequential art storytelling."
3844	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book is honestly tough to evaluate. It has various characters of many ages. The illustrations add so much to this comic-like book in that it allows the reader to see emotions through things as detailed as a character's tears and allows a reader to comprehend the struggle that both Helen and Annie had in their disabilities and learning process. With that, it has an ultimate theme in perseverance and may even speak to the fact that you can do anything you put your mind to if you truly try, as all in all, the both of them allowed themselves to reach their potential in life through learning when it seemed (to others) like they may not have been able to do so.
3845	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"There's a continuing thread in kid's biographies where it's like, ""even though they went through hard times, they persevered and never gave up!"" and along with that sentence is an illustration of said person smiling with determination. It's a bit annoying to read this over and over again as if the person never had doubts. As if they never cried, questioned themselves, or even gave up for years before coming back into it. It paints too much of an optimistic, fantasy idealism that you nor I could ever achieve.  It's one the reasons why I liked this book so much. Annie Sullivan was a brilliant individual, but it also showed how much she fucked up and how easily everything would've collapsed. She nearly left Helen Keller several times out of frustration. You can see and feel her exasperation. So when she was able to teach Helen WATER, it truly felt like a hard-won victory, not a beautiful movie moment with swelling music. I appreciate that."
3846	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Joseph Lambert's book is about the different events that Annie Sullivan went through to teach Helen Keller what language was all about. Annie Sullivan goes through a lot of ups and downs as her teacher, but in the end they grow very close to each other. This is a graphic novel one can tell as soon as they open the book. I gave this book four stars because I thought the overall story was great and I was always interested as to see what was going to happen next. I also thought it was such a unique way to choose the graphic novel medium to bring the story to life. I also gave it four stores because of the amount of illustration detail that is in this book, the detail ads so much more to the novel. The major theme I found was to keep working keep trying and you will succeed.This was very evident in Annie and Helen at first it seemed like their tasks were impossible but after trying numerous of times they were able to succeed. I feel like this book would be suitable for kids starting in middle school because it is a more challenging book there is a lot of different things going on the novel jumps from memories back to the present and there are a lot of details that a child might miss. 
3847	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This graphic novel tells the real life story of Annie Sullivan teaching Helen Keller, who was blind and deaf, words, phrases, how to write, and how to speak. This book shows the hardships and difficulties on both sides. This would be good for 3rd-8th grade students. This book can be confusing for one person to read this book, because there are different people speaking and writings on each page. It would be good to read with a small group of people or a class. 
3848	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book encapsulates the early years Annie Sullivan spent with Helen Keller, from the time Helen was 7 until she was 11. The main art is sort of blocky in a very welcoming way. It feels like Annie's frustration and temper in dealing with Helen in the early days and over time, simply becomes a sort of friendly look as the two come to work together as a team. There are scenes from Helen's perspective that are drawn first with no real detail, and then with more and more detail as she learns the names of things. It's a lovely counterpoint to the way Annie sees the world, and the famed water moment in the story is artfully done.  It's a great book that doesn't shy away from the difficulties Annie and Helen had in the early days and it also does a wonderful job of giving Annie a wider sense of self than just being known as Helen's teacher.
3849	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was an interesting graphic novel to read that provided more information about both Annie and Hellen's lives along with some of the historical context of the time period. It was a fascinating read and something you could re-read and find something new due to the incredible use of color changes in the pictures. The illustrator gives the reader different things to notice and recognize as you continue on in the story which add to the details of the book and also add to the difficulty level. I'd recommend this to upper elementary students. It can be difficult to follow at times, but it is a graphic novel and some students are more open to this genre than others so they may enjoy it and find it to make more sense than a biography of their lives. 
3850	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"This book was so fascinating! The artwork was really well done. At first, when images are shown from Helen's point of view, they are drawn in blurry shadows. After she has her ""water"" breakthrough and learns the connection between objects/concepts and the words she's learned to spell, suddenly the blurs become accompanied by language. I thought this was such a clever way to communicate to readers Helen's different way of seeing the world.  My only problem with this book was the ending. It ends on a rather strange ambivalent note--almost like someone playing a scale and stopping short on the seventh note--and left me wanting more."
3852	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book, Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller, is about Annie living with the Kellers and overcoming the many battles and trials it is taking to teach Keller how to speak in sign language despite being blind and deaf. It goes back and forth between both of their perspectives.  Genre: Graphic Novel, Biography, and 5-8  I gave this book two stars because I didn't like the layout of the different perspectives and the whole jumping back and forth between the two. It was confusing even for me and I don't see how a child who knows nothing about Helen Keller would understand what's going on in this book.  Themes: Trials, Family  Grade: Fifth through Eighth
3853	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I picked this up because it kept turning up on lists of other books I like. I thought I knew all about Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller, because I'd done the play ""Miracle Worker"" in high school and heard about them and their relationship for months. However, I learned more about Annie and her background. I liked how it focused on her, not Helen. I loved the way the art captured Helen's perspective of the world - dark and tumultuous - and how that changed over time.  It looks like a kids' book, but I think teens will relate to Annie's fierce temper (she was a teen when she started with Helen, after all) and the way she speaks her mind."
3854	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"""Annie Sullivan and the Trials of Helen Keller"" is a book that was brought up many times in our class, so I finally decided to read it. I absolutely loved this book and the way it was set up. It shows the life of Annie Sullivan and her interactions with Helen Keller. It also shows the perspective of Helen and what she would have been observing from her point of view. The illustrations are simple and extremely impactful throughout the whole graphic novel. I would recommend this for children from 3rd grade on, and I think it could be used in the classroom as well. "
3855	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is a beautifully created graphic novel about endurance and perseverance through adversity and struggle. Even though Hellen lost her ability to see and hear at a very early age, she was able to find things that made her happy so she could make the most of her life. This story teaches kids that there is always the way out of the darkness; that even in the midst of pain and struggle, you can find hope and happiness. The pictures give a new light to the imagery formed in the story. Good for readers in grades 5-8.
3856	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This was a book about Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. Annie Sullivan was Helen Keller's teacher and this accurately describes her role in Helen's life. Throughout the book you discover the hardships that both of the women have faced. This graphic novel has interesting pictures and it was overall pretty enjoyable. This is best suited for grades fifth and older. Some dominant themes in this book are obstacles, Helen Keller, Annie Sullivan, Learning, Behavior, and communication. 
3857	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This is biographical graphic novel is excellent, and the imagery is amazing, which is why I gave it 5 stars. It captures the reader right from the beginning. This book is about Annie Sullivan's story before Helen, and also Helen's story before she starts to learn. This book is best suited for third through fifth grades. The themes of this book are discovery and learning, cleverness, curiosity, determination and perserverance, and overcoming challenges. 
3858	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"Through the gentle disciple of her tutor and life long companion, Annie Sullivan, Helen Keller maximized her potential, and continues to inspire those with disabilities. Graphic novel format will definitely appeal to the teen /YA reader. I loves the ""Panel Discussions"" in the back of the book. Includes a bibliography and suggestions for further reading."
3859	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	The story follows the trials and tribulations that Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller encounter as they both learn from each other. The graphic novel styling of this book brings an entirely new aspect of the story. Not only do you get to read the story develop, you also get to see it with very complex and thought provoking illustrations.
3860	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A great book for reluctant readers! The author does an amazing job of using different clues (color, background color, font) to help move you along with the perspectives and how Helen is feeling. This book was little more complex with jumping from between Helen and Annie so I would recommend this book for upper elementary (grades 4-6) 
3861	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I had no idea Annie Sullivan was so full of righteous indignation! This definitely fleshed out my knowledge of Helen Keller past The Miracle Worker and had some beautiful representations of Keller's mind in the midst of language aquisition.
3862	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"Two truly amazing individuals. I had never learned any of Sullivan's or Keller's story beyond how ""The Miracle Worker"" ended, so this was a really interesting read. Also—the way Lambert draws Keller's perspective is really clever and adds a lot of depth to the story and her character."
3863	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I thought this book was really great. Not just the storyline or plot, but the graphics and the concept behind telling us the story of Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. This book gave us a clear look into Helen's life and Annie's life and then their lives together. I loved it.
3864	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	"I loved that this book didn't ""sugar coat"" Annie and Hellen's trials. Despite being a children's graphic novel the story was very raw and real. I loved the animations and the different perspectives it followed. "
3865	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Very, very, well done graphic novel/biography (for all ages). Was both emotional & informative. Would be a great addition to any class library, or home collection. Wish the written letters weren't in script, but I understand why they were. 4.5 stars.
3866	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Review to come.
3867	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Amazing visual representation of signs and senses. Rob Clough's review of the work is well written. http://www.tcj.com/reviews/annie-sull...
3868	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	A really cool and really well done graphic novel about Annie Sullivan's life, and her education of Helen Keller. Really fun read!
3869	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	What a great telling of this story! The illustrations are spot on and well done. You can really feel the emotion put into this work.
3870	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	This book is very heart touching. If you want to read this book, there is a copy, in Ms. Johnson's room, that you can check out/
3872	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I enjoyed this graphic novel describing Annie Sullivan's and Helen Keller.
3873	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Loved a chance to read more about Annie's life. And loved the portrayal of Helen's world in images.
3874	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	 Because of the excellent illustrations in this graphic novel the age range for this book could be for ages 9 and up. This is the story of Annie Sullivan's work with Helen Keller. It has a little bit of Annie Sullivans' background and point of view and also gives a great perspective of the emotions Helen Keller was experiencing. The illustrations were very impressive in this graphic novel. The emotions of an early Helen Keller were displayed through words but also vivid and colorful imagery.
3875	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I really enjoyed reading this book and i enjoyed the imagery and how the pictures were done through out the entire book. I feel that this book would be best for children grades 5-8 that are possibly learning about Helen Keller or Ann y who help teach Helen Keller. this book depicts the true story in an a way that is interesting to the age group it is intended for.
3876	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	I thoroughly enjoyed this graphic biography of two extraordinary women, Annie Sullivan and Helen Keller. The persistence and determination of Annie Sullivan was inspiring; their beautiful friendship and how they bonded makes this story such a heartwarming one. The illustrations are beautiful. It's a good light read.
3877	Annie_Sullivan_and_the_Trials_of_Helen_Keller	Annie Sullivan played a large role in Helen Keller's successes of communicating while being deaf and blind. This book is very well written and does a good job of showing that perseverance is key in most situation. Kids always need to remember that their situation can always be worse than what they are going through. Helen Keller had a pretty tough situation and no matter what she worked very hard and was very determined to be successful. This book falls under many different categories, and but as a graphic novel I feel the book could have been better as another story, other than graphic novel.  grade: 3rd-7th genre: birography, graphic-novel, award winning, historical-fiction
3878	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	My son grabbed this from his school library and I read it first because the librarian warned me it had drug use in it. My son thought this was “pretty good.” To me it seemed long and there were things that were brought up but then never mentioned again, so I had questions. What about Lisa? Did his relationship with his birth family continue? Why the big gap at the end? I understand he was sick, but there were years with no commentary. Nonetheless, I enjoyed the flashbacks to what was new in the past decades (and it gave visuals for my son to go with all the stuff I’m always nostalgic for and waxing on about), I learned the meaning behind many (possibly no longer used) computer terms, and I gained some appreciation for the creativity and genius mind of Steve Jobs. 3.5 stars
3879	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I really liked this book and would recommend it to anyone interested in technology. This book is about Steve Jobs the founder of Apple and NeXT. He owned Pixar and had hand in a ton of different companies, many of which you know very well. Steve Jobs had a very high-life, now that's not to say all of it was. He had quite a few low, low, lows. He was diagnosed with cancer and died at age 56. I really liked this book and now have a greater knowledge of Steve Jobs.
3881	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"The illustration of a Hollerith machine reminded me of the IBM machine in our high school in the 80s. We were given a stack of punch cards that we had to code. We used it in math class for numeric computation. I'd punch the cards, run them through the machine and Blammo! it never worked for me. I really hated that machine. I took a DOS class in the 90s and it reminded me of the punch card days. One detail off and the whole thing-a-ma-jig would not work. Ugh! This book is a walk down nightmare machine lane. My brother bought one of the first Macintosh personal computers that went public in 1984 when Steve Jobs was still in his twenties. I thought that computer was the best thing since chocolate ice cream and my brother graciously let me use it whenever I wanted. Jobs was innovative, creative, and demanding and this book captures his quirks marvelously. The only strange bit is that it is geared toward young kids but mentions Jobs smoking pot and using LSD. Not sure why the editors put that in the book but be aware that it is there.  The style of the book is quite different with illustrations and hand-written font. One of the things Jobs loved was calligraphy and he was proud of the fonts option in his software program Macwrite. I remember that program. I'd put several disks in to boot the program because there was no hard drive and oftentimes the computer froze, but I'd give my left hip any day for a computer over my much-hated typewriter.  The book spans Jobs life and covers his personal life, career path, and idiosyncrasies. This is a more positive take on his contributions and does not explore his difficult personality as adult versions do. He was controversial and the book shows that but it focuses more on the technology, innovations, and Job's inventive mind.  One part of the book shows how Jobs and Bill Gates took Xerox PARC's ideas of graphical user interface and created an easy-to-use product for the public to consume. Jobs is accusing Gates in one illustration of stealing his ideas and Gates in turn accuses him of stealing Xerox's idea. Dewey did the same thing when he invented the library system. So did Edison when he invented the light bulb. Many of the great inventors just perfect or make better existing ideas. It is clear that Jobs attention to detail, design background, and perfectionism were what made him good at creating quality products.  The Kindle format made it hard to read all the two-page spreads but it was doable. I'm sure it wouldn't have been acceptable to Jobs if he had designed the eReader. Just kidding. The repeated line that Job's used, ""Insanely great!"" adds to the evidence of his innovative spirit. The layout and design of this book reminds me of Marissa Moss's illustrations. It is not quite a graphic novel, but it departs from narrative text with all the illustrations.  I've been reading conversations on this blog called, Heavy Medal, and they were discussing fatal flaws in books and how it can prevent winning a Newbery award. The controversy was around one paragraph in ""The Hired Girl."" This Steve Jobs book would be another one that seems to go in the same category. Why did the editors add the drug reference when it doesn't contribute to the focus of the story? When society has problems with underage drinking and drugs, why would you make it look like it is okay to do that? The blog discussions have made me think about fatal flaws and how my biases come into play. While I find the drug reference not appropriate, some of you will think no big deal. Decide for yourself."
3882	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I liked this better than I thought I would. I really have no interest in Steve Jobs or the effort to deify him as hipster Zen Buddhist (?) pothead to capitalist icon billionaire crushing the global competition. But this book just came i my library and was shelved in the YA section, so I checked it out.. . . and given how much I loathe whatever it is I know about him, I didn't think this adoring bio sucked. It should have been in color instead of black and white, the sketchy style doesn't fir his sleek aesthetic, it tries to make him out to be so hippie cool when he was increasingly a pretty mean-spirited control freak in his biz practices (Okay, I'm not an expert here, I just read the papers. .. and recall some of the obits). But given my grumpy approach to it, it was better than I thought it would be. I mean, techie nerds need their heroes, too, I guess.
3883	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This biography shows who Steve Jobs was, and told what he did with his life really well. The reason I give it such a low rating though is that, it's hard to track what is happening, because of the pictures. The pictures kinda are everywhere, and the words are everywhere with the pictures. On a few pages, it shows a full page of pictures, and added text under the pictures. Its format is kinda like a little kid picked where the things in the book were going to go, but it does tell the story of Steve Jobs pretty well.
3884	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A short graphic biography of one of the founders of Apple.  I didn’t really know anything about Steve Jobs, besides he was one of the founders of Apple, so for me this book provided quite a bit of new information – for example how much of a ‘borrower’ he was (at least according to this book).  My rating of 3 stars (rather than higher) is because of the lack of detail and also some of the pages were appeared garbled.
3886	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Good one. After watching the movie, I have been meaning to read the biography by Walter Isaacson. As for a graphic novel, initially the lettering seemed hardly legible. I found this a bit irritating at first, but then got used to it. The art work was ok for me. Still, enjoyed the read and hence 4 stars
3890	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	1st-This book was a very good read for when I was just relaxing and trying to get some stuff done without actually doing anything. Some of the quotes and what the book was saying really stood out to me and it could stick out to you as well. I would recommend this book to people who like steve jobs or have a passion for technology. He played a big part in tech stuff so it's interesting reading about him. With that being said I would most likely recommend this book. People will end up loving it as much as I love it. So, in my opinion, everybody should read it  2nd- There wasn’t that many things that weren't good about the book but the few things really stuck out to me. 1st the reading was kind of hard to read in some parts of the book because it's in his handwriting. It is hard to understand but its like a biography and its kinda annoying when it's like that. Most of the book it pretty good but it tends to get off topic a lot you can be talking about one thing then all of a sudden your talking about limes dropping from helicopters on the beach. Which is confusing and is not that fun to read when you cant process what is going on. But those are the only main things I spotted in the book.  3rd- The message in the book is to live you life to the fullest because you never know when it can be taken away. Steve jobs was a good man who did a lot of good things but sadly passed away making people wonder what he couldve accomplished if he was alive for longer. There is multiple messages one that was the best was do your homework that was some of his wise words that he said. You do your homework you tend to keep your mind active and get more things done. That is why this book is a good read it tells encouraging stuff from just reading it. 
3891	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book was great! I enjoyed reading about Steve Jobs' life because he was a very successful man. It was interesting to see how he started from dropping out of college to becoming a millionaire. Furthermore, it was entertaining to read about how Apple was created and built up to where it is today. Steve Jobs was a genius and many people still look up to him because of his success in business. Overall, I would recommend this book to anyone that likes technology.
3892	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This is the best biography I have ever read. It can be many different genres such as Non-fiction or graphic novel. I definitely recommend this book. I read it in one night which was about 2 hours. This story was about Steve Jobs and how his life was. I learned lots and lots of facts. I loved this book!!! P.S This is the book Mrs. Morgan was talking about in class. I put it under the biography section.
3895	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	3.5*  If you are really interested in Jobs’ autobiography, read Walter Isaacson. This is a brief biography targeted at younger readers and it is good enough. This is Jobs on ‘surface’.
3896	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"I read the book Steve Jobs: Insanely Great by Jessie Hartland. This book is a graphic biography about Steve Jobs and his many great inventions. The main characters in this book are Steve Jobs, his family, and Woz. This book's setting was manly in silicon valley for Steve's childhood. The author does a great job of making you feel that you are there with Steve in that moment living his very own life. The illustrations also add to that affect because they are drawn with such detail. I thought that this book was amazing to read. The book told the life of Steve Jobs really well. However I disliked that the author spent very little time on describing each and every moment of his life. There were good descriptions, but I think that the author should have gone more in depth on explaining each moment of Steve's life. For example, when Steve is in his childhood it talks very briefly about his time at school but I feel that the author could've explained Steve's times at school more. Another time this happened was when Steve traveled. All the book said was that he traveled around a lot and listed some of the places that he traveled. But the author could have been more in depth about his travels such as, what he did, what he learned, and (very) specific events from that place. Overall, Steve Jobs: Insanely Great was a great book and I highly recommend this book if you want to learn more about Steve Jobs and his ""insanely great"" apple products. "
3897	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Wish I had something more positive to say about it, but the art and lettering is very poor, I'm talking about 'high school student doing art homework' level poor. Which is ironic since Jobs hammered so much on sleek and sharp design aesthetics, throughout his life. Simplistic or child-like illustrations can be charming and/or serve their purpose, but I don't feel it did in this case. it just looked bland and lazy to me, to be honest.  Still somewhat entertaining, but I think that has more to do because Jobs is an interesting subject because of his turbulent personality and the things he accomplished. And it was nice to have a relatively short summation of his life. But I don't feel the author added a lot to the the story itself, on the whole it stayed fairly superficial and by the numbers.  I have no idea why people would rate this book 5 stars. There is just not enough quality or content in either the art or the story.   
3898	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	ARC picked up at BEA last May.  A very thorough graphic chronology of Steve Jobs life that doesn't sugar coat anything. The author also occasionally pauses in the telling of the Jobs story to remind the reader what technology was at times - reminding this oldster when microwave ovens became popular and what music formats were in use at different times.  The entire book is in black and white and crude, but identifiable, drawings. The author also did a book about Julia Child that I will definitely be reading.
3899	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"This graphic biography is a fascinating look at an ""insanely great"" life. The devices our kids take for granted today, first started as someone's idea-often Steve Job's. I think kids will be excited to read about the man/mind behind their iPhones, iPods, iPads, and laptops. The graphic bio format is truly well done and will make this biography even more accessible to readers. Simple illustrations and key highlights of his life make this a great read for anyone curious about this modern day genius!"
3900	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The book Steve Jobs: Insanely Great, is a wonderful graphic novel about Steve Jobs. The book goes over Steve's life starting from when he was adopted as a little boy all the way to his final hours of his times. It goes over how Steve came to start the company we all talk about today which is of course, Apple. In the book you will encounter his struggles, successes and much more about his rocky road through life, all brought together with interesting drawings on every page. Overall this was an easy read, but still a good one that could suit all ages.
3901	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	It's hard for me to review this book, because it is hard for me to be objective about Jobs. I think it gives a good overview of his accomplishments. I also really like the technology section. I do wish the author had emphasized his shortcomings a bit more. If I didn't know more about Jobs, reading this book would probably lead me to believe he was an exemplary human, rather than the complicated being he was.
3902	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A good overview of Jobs's life and contributions to modern technology. Imagine where we'd be if not for Steve Jobs (I wouldn't be writing this review on my iPhone for one). This book concentrates mostly on Jobs's career and tech innovations. I'd especially keep it in mind for teens trying to figure out their path to career.
3904	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book was a really fun book to read. Many fun facts were included in this book which made this book an interesting book to read. Not only was this book fun to read I also learned a lot by reading this.
3905	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	An interesting and cool way of representing one of the coolest, craziest and inspiring people of the Technology Industry. It was fun reading the book that throws light on the overview and few important milestones in the life of late Steve Jobs. A nice read.
3906	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"I'd add ""practically perfect"" to the tag line ""Insanely great."" Superb."
3908	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Though Jessie Hartland’s “graphic biography” isn’t entirely uncritical, there are few shadows in its graphical style and fewer still in the way it presents its subject. It’s essentially a work of fandom. Is there anything wrong with fandom? It depends how you use it. I’m going to sidestep the question by using the Alanis Morissette maneuver and calling this situation ironic. It’s ironic that Steve Jobs’s often-praised inclination to think different may have cost him a few years of his life: for a while he chose unconventional treatments for cancer (the book mentions this in passing). It’s ironic that, in the years following the “1984” TV ad, Apple has been favored by many for having landed blows against the empire. From one angle, the empire brushed off the attack and remains largely intact, though Apple has made inroads against it—Apple computers occupy less than 10 percent of the global market, though the proportion was even lower at the time of that ad—and from another angle, Apple has become the empire, or joined it. Early in 2022, Apple’s market capitalization briefly exceeded $3 trillion. Big isn’t necessarily bad—though you might think so from the “1984” ad—but it’s not necessarily good either.  Every form has its limits, but graphic novels and other comics-style works aren’t condemned to simplicity. (An inspiring example is Logicomix , an account of Bertrand Russell’s life and work.) But Hartland’s version of Jobs frequently seeks, as part of his design philosophy, to “simplify” one thing or another, and Hartland seems to obey that injunction herself. The graphic style used here has its appeal; it’s light, lively, and unassuming, and the drawings get right some details few people would care about. For instance, I recognized the Digital Equipment Corporation minicomputer in Atari president Nolan Bushnell’s office. On the other hand, many of the graphics, and even some of the text statements, are highly offhand—its carefree manner sometimes verges on careless. Does anyone want to contest whether Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, Jobs’s partner in much of the early work at Apple, “launched the entire personal computer industry”? I do!  That’s one of the problems with fandom. When it’s rooted in the great-man view of history, as this book is, it leaves too much of the story untold.  (For the record, I read an advance reading copy.) 
3910	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	****More like 3.5 stars I'm an Apple fanboy so I was really excited to read this. I was lucky enough to have found this copy on BBW book event because if I'm completely honest I would have never read a biography. Because this is a graphic biography it gave me enough motivation to read it. (And so glad I did)  I really enjoyed this book but I do have some problems with it. I really liked the very sketch-y art style. Steve Jobs is a very fascinating subject because he is creative, passionate, innovative, basically a genius.  He wants his products to be user-friendly and simple and I think that perfectly describes every Apple products. He's a perfectionist and because of that he tends to be problematic and difficult to work with so it's sad to have to read about it.  But focusing on the good things on this book, Steve Jobs taught the world to have the courage to follow your heart and intuition and not letting the noise of other's opinions drown our own inner voice. I think it's so brave to risk something and follow what your heart desires. It touched me because I can't risk and just don't have that great amount of courage to drop evertyhing that I have now and risk it for something that I always wanted to be. (ang drama haha, I always wanted to study multimedia arts but I'm stuck here in engineering school hehe)  Overall, I really enjoyed this book but I think it lacks depth and it needs more--more explanation, more in-depth content. The art syle was 5/5 for me though!
3911	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	 Goodreads review  For my review I’ll be talking about the book Steve Jobs. This book was a biography about the life and times of steve Jobs, throughout the book you experience how Steve was as a child, and how he was able to start the mega company that became Apple. I found out many interesting facts about Steve Jobs's early life, teenage years, and adulthood. The book was a graphic novel so it was very easy to read through it. The book starts a little slow, taking a plunge into the childhood of Steve. During this time in the book we do find out a lot about Steve’s personal life and what truly gave him the immense drive that he would display later in his life. The book then starts to speed up as we find Steve growing up and working on his new business apple computers. As the business he started grows, so does steve as a person, during this time he goes away to find himself in Asia and comes back a minimalist, after this trip we certainly see a spark in drive for Steve’s motivation and drive. Overall I would give this nook a 3 out of 5 rating. I did enjoy reading it just felt too easy to me. If I was a younger age I would have rated this book complete 5 stars. I usually enjoy books that make you think a little more and this one was kind of a mindless read. There were however some interesting facts I found out about Steve’s life, like the fact that he’s adopted, and that he was a college dropout. I would recommend this book to anyone from 6th to 9th grade. 
3913	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I read this graphic novel in one sitting and could not put it down! As a longtime Apple user, I have always been fascinated by Steve Job's life and career. Jessie Hartland wrote a phenomenal graphic biography, complete with drawings, fonts, and quirky text features. The illustrations are black and white, dance around the pages, and truly hook the reader in! I learned all about Steve's childhood, family, and how he started Apple Computer in his parent's garage in what is today, Silicon Valley. Jessie Hartland organized this book in chapters, each telling a part of Steve's journey with Apple and other companies. The reader felt the setbacks, triumphs, and celebrations Steve Jobs faced during his life. Steve Jobs was a perfectionist, and always wanted to be ahead and figure out what the consumer wanted before they did! This was a highly engaging read and I recommend it be used with middle school students +. The technology history in this graphic novel could be quite enlightening to our students and help them see how their iPhones have developed over time! There was a reference to Steve Jobs using illegal drugs, which could be problematic for some schools. This title was on the Notable Social Studies Trade books for Young People 2016 list.
3915	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	" In the book ""Steve Jobs: Insanely Great"" by Jessie Hartland, it shows Steve Jobs' achievements throughout his life and his journey in developing the apple company. In the book, it teaches you all about moments from his early life, all the way up until his death. It brings you through his family, partners, and friends. It also shows the ups and downs of developing a company and working with people in order to be successful. I rated this book 5 stars because the author makes it look non-professional and fun, so that I'm actually interested in reading it, as well as informational, and edifying. In the book I liked how the author made the book more enjoyable by using a playful font. The font makes it more enjoyable for children to read. I also liked how the author divided the book into sections with pictures and side notes so that it really gets the point across and helps you understand more about the book. I would definitely recommend this book to someone interested in a company or electronics because it gives you tips on the importance of a company and how to develop one. I liked this book because I am interested in electronics and I wanted to learn more about apple."
3916	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I have to be honest. This is the first graphic novel I have read from cover to cover. I wanted to check out a different style of biography written specifically for teens. What I can say is that I feel this biography would definitely capture their attention and keep them reading rather than the novel Steve Jobs. The novel gave us the highlights of his life through the use of sketches, speaking and thought bubbles, and some side narrations. It took us all the way from his childhood which had a large impact on his future success as well as struggles, then ended with his death in 2011. What I wish it had done was elaborate a little more on a few topics. I got a pretty good sense of who Steve Jobs was and what he was all about, but it did leave me questioning some things that happened in his life and wanting to know more about him. When I saw the author has also done a graphic novel on Julia Childs, I decided I was going to go find that one as well, because Julia has special places in my memory with my grandparents and would be neat to have a quick read to learn a little more about her.
3917	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Steve Jobs was the genius who created the electronic company, Apple. He brought us Apple computers, iPods, iPads and iPhones. He was born in San Francisco on February 24, 1955. His adoptive father was a machinist, so Jobs followed in his footsteps. Jobs loved to create things with electronic components. After dropping out of college, he created his own company. Jobs died of cancer at the age of 56 on October 5, 2011. His last words were “Oh wow, oh wow, oh wow.”  In “Steve Jobs Insanely Great”, Jessica Hartland tells Jobs’ biography in the form of a nonfiction graphic novel. At 225 pages, it's an easy and quick read. This book is very entertaining for any age group. Jobs’ story got a bit emotional towards the end of the book. This is when you find out that Jobs has cancer. His legacy was cut short, but it was a great one The author used great detail and visuals. These are what bring the story altogether.  The book can serve as a good introduction to Jobs and will impress with its concision those who already know a lot about him. Anyone would enjoy this read regardless of their age or sophistication.
3918	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	In looking at the creative design of the outside of Jessie Hartland's graphic novel, Steve Jobs, of course you are curious. Here was the idea of Apple in a graphic novel from the outside in.  The illustrations that almost resemble brainstorming and sketching on every page truly works. In every segment the top gadgets of that era, starting with 60's in Santa Clara, stretching to the 2000's is excellent. Timelines of Steve Jobs, the Bibliography, as well as the Notes as well only add to the overall effect of completeness to this graphic novel.  One still is able to see the personality, both positive and negative, that made up Steve Jobs. One easily recognizes that Steve Jobs' success was based on well, Steve Jobs, but also the people he pushed so hard around him, that willingly and sometimes unwillingly produced dreams that came from countless sketches, prototypes, and trials. Pixar, to NEXT, to Apple, it was a crazy, eventful, and wild ride that you can easily take in every page and recognize parts of your past as well.
3920	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The book , Steve Jobs : Insanely Great by Jessie Hartland , shows an amazing perspective of Jobs' life. It shows how he struggled to become who he is now . He died at a young age of 53 but the things he accomplished in that short amount of time is incredible and that is what this book portrays. I have learned so much from this book. I never thought as popular as Jobs is, that he had overcome the struggles that he faced. This book taught me that no matter how many bumps in the road that there are, that I can face and beat them as long as I never give up. But that is not even all that this book has made me realize. It also taught me to be understanding of others because we never know their background. Even famous and seemingly happy people hurt inside and are not always perfect. Jobs created so much for this world and he will live on through all of us. 
3921	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"Here is the task: Make a biography about one of greatest thinkers of our time. Audience? Kids. Oh, and make sure incomprehensible context about computers is there too. FANTASTIC. Harland nailed this by creating a graphic novel written and illustrated in a style that kids will connect with. Why? Because it looks like a stupid ""Capitan Underpants"" or ""Wimpy Kid"" book! Brilliant!  I absolutely loved reading this book. Not only does it show both sides of Job's craziness in a non-biased way, kids will learn tons about how computers, software, and hardware works. I found myself looking up demos of Apple II software. *Oooh... look at at that GUI....  Bonus points on the 3/4 jacket cover design. (Yes, that blue part is the hard cover casing of the book)."
3922	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I enjoyed learning more than I knew before about Steve Jobs. However, I did not like how the book was set up. I felt it was disorganized and it made it hard to read. I felt the author wanted to take a different approach than writing a plain biography, but I felt distracted. I felt the words, due to the type of text, was a little hard to read. I did enjoy the illustrations and felt it was a nice touch. I just wish the text was in a more organized manner. Overall, the book held a lot of great information about Steve Job's life from beginning to end, and how his inventions, thoughts, and ideas impacted our world today. 
3924	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Grateful I never had to share space with Steve Jobs! As we say in the south, “Bless his heart”! His incredible mind changed the world in countless ways AND his personality was abusive and intolerable for many who worked with him.  This is a graphic biography and I found the graphics charming and informative. I read the book in around an hour and absorbed lots of information through the graphics and some words. Wished we’d had graphic books decades ago.  This was only my 2nd graphic book and I’m hooked on them. Now to check the public library Catalog and see if I can search for books in graphic format-:) 
3925	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This shouldn't be the only book on Steve Jobs that you should read as it's a graphical representation of a biography; it's quirky, bits of trivia about Steve here and there and decently outlined major milestones of his life since birth, to Reed's college to creation of Apple in a garage with his mate Stephen Wozniak. I liked the bits of details like Steve being a perfectionist and the visionary he was - could be difficult to work with - example prior to ipod launch, he just was not satisfied because the headphones didn't make that click sound when inserted into the iPod's headphones jack. The little things really.
3926	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"I thought this book was very interesting, especially now when my attention span is so limited. The illustrations in the book really helped me wrap my head around some of the concepts. One of my biggest curiosities was how someone like Steve Jobs even comes up with the idea to innovate. I would love to come up with something revolutionary but I wouldn't even know where to start. One of my favorite lines was, ""Don't let the noise of others' opinion drown out your own inner voice"" (Hartland 215). I think that is a very inspirational quote and if I can learn to live that way then I will be truly successful. I am very glad that I read this book."
3927	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book is like an entertaining, educational CliffsNotes/SparkNotes-version of a biography.  My son brought this home from the school library, and I enjoyed reading it in one sitting. This book does what I think it's intended to do: offer a biographical overview of the life of Steve Jobs with a measured amount of detail. The graphics and organization of the book make it easy to learn and remember the history of Jobs, including his professional endeavors and transitions as well as relevant information about his personal life. (This just might start me on a whole new road to reading graphic books.) 
3928	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Pros: a great, interesting concise summary of the life of Steve Jobs; humorous and informative; nice, detailed pictures  Cons: I think the font will be hard to read for some students - it's a mix of print and cursive and it's handwritten (as opposed to typed); some of the pages are really, really, really, really packed with information and graphics  Overall: GREAT read! I am really excited about the increasing number of nonfiction graphic novels that are coming out. This is a great addition to this new subgenre and should be on the shelves of middle and high schools everywhere!
3929	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book is a graphic novel outlining the life of Steve Jobs. In the 13 chapters, it covers some of the major highlights of his life including his childhood, creative thought processes, and transformation of the Apple computer.  If you have wondered how Steve jobs came to be Steve jobs. You would want to read this book because it shows how Steve Jobs came to be the Steve Jobs that we all know. You would also want to read this book because it shows how much he struggled to create a company that he wanted to make.
3930	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	3.5 stars, great for older kids/teens or anyone who doesn’t want to slog through a long biography. Very engaging look into who Steve Jobs was behind the myth. I learned lots of cool information about the growth of the technology industry and Silicon Valley. Great pages highlighting the major technologies of each decade from the 70-2000s. Also appreciated the details I didn’t know about Steve Jobs’ personal foibles and failures that both impeded and contributed to his success. Makes me want to read the Walter Isaacson biography now.
3931	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I am not generally one for Biographies. I am a Rebel Badge Club member and currently doing my Readers Badge. I do tend to read a huge variety of fiction, different genres etc.. but the badge asks that 1 of your reads be a biography, so due to it's addictive reading style I chose this. The book itself does what it says gives an account of Steve Jobs life. There is lengthy monologues about what he did, just greatly illustrated, straight to the point facts. It makes it such an easy going fantastic read.
3932	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This graphic non-fiction book gives a great overview of Steve Jobs' life, especially his creativity and genius at work. Less attention is paid to his personal and family life.  The illustrations are all gray, black and white, with lots of movement. Some of the text is a bit hard to read because it's small or not-so-neat writing.  I really liked the spreads that showed what technology was popular that decade- especially since this book is written for teens who would not know much of the 60s or 70s technology: record players, dial phones, typewriters!
3934	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I totally loved this book. Here are some things I learned! Ridley Scott directed an Apple commercial, Issey Miyaki designed Steve Jobs' polo neck & jeans wardrobe, Steve Jobs once ate so many carrots that he turned orange and that he thought he didn't need to bathe at one time because of his diet. (Spoiler, he did need to, he was stinky)  I am a big fan of Jessie Hartland now, will go and check out her Julia Childs book for sure :)
3935	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I finished reading the entire book in about an hour. Yes! Because it's a graphical presentation of Steve Job's life from birth to his death and all his success and struggles in between. Graphical here means cute doodles that even your older kids can read it too! It's a great way to know the man behind the revolutionary gadgets (iPhones, etc.) we now enjoy today in bite-sized chunks. If you want more details, then this is not the book for you.
3936	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The new collection. A bibliography book in graphic mode, the first I've encountered in the genre. An excellent presentation and time lapse to reminisce the long history of Apple and Jobs' life. An easy and quick access who want to explore more about the knowledge of computer and techno transformation while you can enjoy the content to the fullest and escape boring jargons and mood. 👍👍Very recommended.
3937	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Graphic biography of Steve Jobs and Apple as well. Targeted for young people. It alludes to Jobs’ difficult personality but doesn’t really convey his attractive or unattractive behavior too boldly. Good overview of personal computer and electronics technology history for young people who haven’t lived through it. It doesn’t add new information for people who already know about Steve Jobs and these innovations. 
3939	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A fine, quick intro to Steve Jobs. Not a great example of a biography for students, but a fine intro to the idea. One thing; Jessie Harland might be an exceptional artist. However, as this book as my only example, my goodness, what a terribly way to present a man who made his name DESIGNING beautiful products. The art was childish, and tragically ironic to portray someone who was clearly so determined to make things beautiful and stylish. 
3940	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	THIS WAS SUCH AN AWESOME BIOGRAPHY!! I loved the format as a graphic novel it was so simplistic yet so unique. Steve jobs was such an interesting person and I loved getting more depth about his life and Apple IT WAS BEAUTIFUL!!! This is definitely recommended if you want to learn more about Steve jobs but isn’t a huge reader. It’s so easy to flip thorough!
3941	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I bought it just because of the cute drawings but after reading the book, I actually admire the author’s efforts in making it easy to read for young readers. The book only contains main milestones of Steve’s life with general context. If you are looking for something detailed, this book is not for you.
3942	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"The handwriting isn't as easy to read as I'd like. Part of that might be due to the light pencil-like lines, rather than a blacker ink. The art is similarly ""messy,"" needing close examination for proper interpretation. The story is gripping, and really pulls you along, though, so I soon stopped noticing my issues with the lines. I liked the looks at what tech was new throughout the decades."
3943	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	It's a really great book especially for children. It includes lots of pictures which makes it much easier for the reader to understand and it keeps the things interested. It's a must for someone who doesn't like reading that much. Plus it's really informative. It basically explains the whole life of Steve jobs breifly.
3944	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I read Isaacson's biography about Jobs and loved it. I picked this up one day in our school library while waiting for a staff meeting to start. I was delightfully surprised at how well this pulls in the really interesting facts of Jobs' lifetime and puts it into a stunning graphic form that is extremely accessible for middle-schoolers and visual learners alike.
3946	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A great read about Steve Jobs from birth-death, but in graphic novel format. This is not only a history of Job's life but also a history of the evolution of modern personal technology. A quick, fun read.
3947	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This was a good book. I like how i could read it fast and how it told about his life in a grafic novel. It made it a lot more fun to read about his life and how he started apple. One thing I really love at the ending is that it said his last words were ¨ Oh, wow...¨
3948	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I liked the graphic novel design, it didn’t make me feel like I was reading the dictionary. The overall panels were hard to read because there were not a lot of bubbles and the font was free hand. I’ve heard a lot about him and I think it was interesting to read about him.
3952	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Really engaging graphics, simple enough to read in a single sitting, but full of interesting bits of information about a complicated, amazing person.
3954	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Fast and to the point, with as much detail about Steve Jobs as I really want to know. Takes care of my Read a Book about Technology category for the Read Harder Challenge.
3955	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A OK bio for kids. I found some of the words hard to read due to font style and how light the text is. The drawings/pictures look like something a middle school student would design.
3957	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Fun, but pretty much pointless if you've read Isaacson's biography. 
3958	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I really like the concept of a graphic biography. I think this quick, quirky read would appeal to my students wanting to dip their toes in NF or learn more about Jobs' life. For G6-8 and HS.
3959	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book feels to me like a children's book more than a graphic novel. It was enjoyable but had rather unimpressive drawings and dumbed down writing.
3960	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This is a great format in which to read about the life of this most innovative and interesting leader of the tech world in the 20th and early 21st centuries.
3961	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I think that it was a great fast read about Steve jobs life.
3962	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Interesting! A great format for a biography!
3964	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	It was so cool 'cause I didn't know anything about Steve Jobs and the evolution of the coomputer so it was nice for me
3965	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Liked this more than I expected. Normally do not like graphic format.
3968	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	An amazing book. I learned a lot more about Steve Jobs, through a graphic novel-like style.
3969	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	great for Steve job fans ... fun and simple graphic bio.
3970	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	3.25-3.75 This is my summer reading for school, but I actually really liked it and I learned a lot, it also put a lot of things in perspective. Really quick read.
3971	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Biography is not my favorite genre, but I enjoyed this one. The simple black and white illustrations worked well to showcase the life of a man who wanted simple yet innovative. 
3973	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	It was a great book it had some great parts in the book I recommend it 😀
3974	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Great
3975	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This art is very whimsical and kids book like, and while the information is somewhat important it feels very dry. I couldn’t even stay engaged enough to finish it and I love nonfiction comics
3977	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Insanely great start for further in-depth reading.
3978	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A simple light hearted short biography of the insanely great steve jobs
3979	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	It’s a very fun way to read a biography 
3980	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Actual rating: 4,5 stars.
3981	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	it was a good, educational book.
3982	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Very easy book about one of the greatest men in the world. I didn't know so much about Jobs before but now my level of respect was raised. 
3983	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	What an insanely cool graphic biography! I learned so much about Steve Jobs and his brilliance, creativity, and perseverance. What a life, and what a book. 
3984	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Loved this - it felt like the perfect tribute to creative innovator who changed the way we interact with and through technology!
3985	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Quick read of Jobs’ fascinating life. Read in 2018. 
3986	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Great book. Nice story about the Apple voyage of small startup to a massive industry giant. 
3987	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A really interesting take on a traditional biography.
3988	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Easy to read, quite catchy and the cartoon like style makes you get in the story.
3990	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I didn't like the art or the simplified version of his story.
3991	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I was able to learn so much! 
3992	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The illustration is very good, especially the color and the shapes. It's my first time to read a biography-like book and this book is a great opening.
3993	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Such a lovely Bio - highly recommended it!
3994	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Neat book, fascinating figure, cool story.
3995	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	this is a great book
3996	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I thought this book was great! So much information and delivered in such a unique way (graphic novel). 
3997	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Very interesting to see how it came together.
3998	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The font was painful. Words were everywhere. Chaotic in a tiresome way.
3999	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Very informative for kids. I thought the layout was a little confusing to read at times, but I think kids would find it interesting.
4001	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	There is no denying that Steve Jobs will go down in history as one of the greatest innovators of all-time. Yet, there are likely many youngsters who don’t understand how/why he is important, and how (without him) those ubiquitous phones in their pockets may not exist. That is where “Steve Jobs: Insanely Great” thrives…giving a graphic history of Jobs’ life in an easily accessible form.  This is a pretty standard biography of Jobs’ life and career set in a graphic novel format. It starts with his birth, ends with his death, and covers pretty much all the important moments in between.  The subject matter, of course, is what will draw both young and old to this book. Even though we all seem to have a smartphone in our pocket these days, I think we are still amazed at how quickly that technology developed. Looking at the life of Mr. Jobs is a nice parallel for understanding how we went from computers that took up entire rooms to the small, sleek, stylish devices we have now.  Another positive from “Insanely Great” is that it is long enough (at 223 pages) to give some real insight into the man and the times around him. The book doesn’t shy away from the fact that Jobs was often hated by his employees, but it doesn’t demonize him for it either. Instead, it takes a good “middle of the road” approach to Jobs’ biography…laying out what is known about him and letting the reader decide what they think.  Overall, it was fun to read this graphic novel, and because of the ease of the format it truly can be enjoyed by pretty much all-comers. The art was intriguing and pleasing to look at on each page, while the subject matter is so fascinating that you can’t help but turn the page again and again.
4002	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Perfect book to read to fill the flight time between Las Vegas and Denver. Nothing amazing other than the fact that the book was full of pictures, keeping it from a three or even two star rating.
4004	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Choice Book #5 Quarter 2  Steve Jobs: Insanely Great is a unique biography on the life of Steve Jobs.  Steve Jobs: Insanely Great originally takes place in Palo Alto, California, but follows Jobs on his journeys throughout the world. India, Japan, and other parts of California are all included on that list.   Steve Jobs is described as a difficult child. He is stubborn and rude and often attempts to prank other kids. However, Steve can also be determined and willing to take wild risks. He also tries to make sure that his decisions are for the best. Sometimes that part gets in the way, and therefore makes him seem unnecessarily stubborn and unlikable.  The author believes that hard work, determination, and a positive attitude will always win over the people who try to put you down. Text evidence: 1) When Steve was kicked out of Apple, he never lost hope. He just moved on, forming a new company with his envisions to keep his work going. 2) Even when Steve's designers at Apple said a device was impossible to make, Steve kept his determination and patience and always told his designers that it could be done. 3) Steve was determined to find a purpose with his life, even if that meant travelling halfway around the world to India. Even if some of these events didn't make up to something (Like Steve going to India or forming NeXT) they are still great shows of Steve's determination.  Steve Jobs: Insanely Great was a good book. I understand that the author was trying to be unique and creative in the style of the book with the graphic novel-biography mix, but I felt this book would have been better just written as a novel. Nonetheless, it was an interesting book with a unique style about the life of Steve Jobs. Even if I don't agree on the style of the book, I would still recommend it to anyone interested in Steve Jobs.
4005	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A little light on detail, but has a great art style and engaging prose. 
4007	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"1. I absolutely loved this book and loved getting to know Steve Jobs more. 2. I want to be just like him. And not techy because that's not me, but hardworking, innovative, and creative. 3. Love this quote, ""Here's to the crazy ones. The misfits. The rebels. The troublemakers. The square pegs in the round holes. The ones who see things differently. Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones who do."" 4. I love the Joseph Eichler style house he grew up in! 5. I cracked up when I read that he made ""bring your pet to school"" posters and put them around school. As a teacher, I cringe at the chaos. 6. The blue box thing that got around paying for long distance calls was crazy. 7. My brother used to eat so many carrots that he turned orange too. 8. This quote hit me hard, ""'If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today?' And when the answer has been NO for too many days in a row, he knows he has to change something."" 9. The comparison of the huge computer in 1970s holding 8 megabytes and now 64,000 megabytes fit in a cell phone was interesting. 10. After reading the book I had to watch the 1984 Super Bowl commercial, the Pixar Luxo Jr. short, and the Pixar tin toys short. 11. The Pixar studios has a cereal bar where you can get any cereal you want. I'm lobbying for every workplace to have that. Kthanks. 12. I loved the Einstein quotes too, ""Creativity is the residue of time wasted."" ""Follow what's mysterious."" 13. I loved Jobs's commencement speech, ""Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma, which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice. Stay hungry. Stay foolish. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary."" 14. His last words are everything, ""Oh, wow..."" 15. The artwork was quirky and kooky just like Steve Jobs. I loved it so much. There was so much to look at. So many details! "
4008	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Whether they’ve seen Aaron Sorkin and Danny Boyle’s Steve Jobs movie, read Walter Isaacson’s biography, or just own an iPhone, this graphic novel retelling of the Apple innovator’s life will capture the imaginations of the legions of readers who live and breathe the technocentric world Jobs created.  Told through a combination of black-and-white illustrations and handwritten text, this fast-paced and entertaining biography in graphic format presents the story of the ultimate American entrepreneur, the man who brought us Apple Computer, Pixar, Macs, iPods, iPhones, and more.  Jobs’s remarkable life reads like a history of the personal technology industry. He started Apple Computer in his parents’ garage and eventually became the tastemaker of a generation, creating products we can’t live without. Through it all, he was an overbearing and demanding perfectionist, both impossible and inspiring. Capturing his unparalleled brilliance, as well as his many demons, Jessie Hartland’s engaging biography illuminates the meteoric successes, devastating setbacks, and myriad contradictions that make up the extraordinary life and legacy of the insanely great Steve Jobs.  Here's the perfect book for any teen interested in STEM topics, especially tech.  A School Library Journal Best Book of the Year 
4009	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Steve Jobs was involved in almost all developments in individual-use technology since the creation of the first personal computers in the 1970s. This book is a remarkable story of nothing less than the technological transformation of our lives. In addition, we get to meet Steve Jobs on a personal level. He was sometimes difficult to work with and always a perfectionist. He had good times and bad, but he always had an innovative spirit and was at his best when imagining the future. When Steve Jobs died of pancreatic cancer in 2011, the world lost one it’s “insanely great” minds.  This story is presented in graphic novel style, with black/white artwork and handwritten text. The book seems somewhat like a scrapbook of his life, packed with activity and accomplishment.  Mr. Fraser
4010	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"I'm trying to think about this book from the perspective of a teen, since that's the target audience. Normally, I don't feel the need to do that with YA books, but when I was reading it, I kept thinking ""do they really need to explain what tech was available in the 70s, 80s, 90s? Isn't that talking down to us a little?"" Then I remembered that most teens today likely DON'T know (or at least don't really understand) how different things were. It's like my understanding of the tech of the 40s, 50s and 60s when I was a teen (I know more about that era now because I'm a nerd, but back then...not so much). So basically this book makes me feel old. But to rate it on that basis would be petty and unprofessional, and I rise above such childish instincts (usually).  This is a great introduction to a fascinating and complicated man who, for better or worse, revolutionized our relationship with technology and how it interacts with our lives. My major criticism is that it slightly downplays some of the more troubling/difficult aspects of Jobs' personality, and the fact that he depended on a lot of other people to actually design and create the products he envisioned. It doesn't ignore those things completely, but I felt like the overall picture could have been a little less rosy. Of course, I'm sitting here writing this on my MacBook, with my iPad next to me, watching Netflix via my Apple TV, so I'm really in no place to judge. Criticisms aside, this book is very accessible, readable, informative and interesting and the graphic format makes it appealing to teens who might be disinclined to read a traditional biography."
4011	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book is recommended for those who want to start to involve in reading memoirs/biography. A book told abt life of Steve Jobs who invented Apple. Kinda sorrowful after finish it and quite impressed with the history of one of the products that I adore.  Why sorrowful? This is because he is very a great person behind the most branded product in the world. But his life is not like that. His life ended with cancer that he keep it silently even to his close family and friends.  I am impressed with his abilities and he is truly a gifted person. No wonder he can simply drop out of university to pursue his dream. Drop out but he can come out with a new world! So young people, please do not just follow unless you truly know about your vision and mission of life.  He reads many books to get knowledge since there are no google or any medium to find information. So he reads and reads and reads until he came out with the first Apple product. He joins the venture with his friend that also has a passion for technology and experiences many upsides down.  The most thing that makes me impressed is he had his stand in life that is: simplicity. He always follows a simple life even he can afford everything in the world. But he keeps a low lifestyle. He learns about Zen concepts of life from Buddhism in Japan and India until he known as the father of focus.  Lastly, his life ended in his 50-s but he left a world that people could not reject until this moment. I am glad that I’ve read his story and feels more appreciative since I am one of Apple’s users.  I hope that I can follow one of the good things that he thought and advise us to use in this short life.  3.9/5 ⭐️
4012	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Biography of Steve Jobs in a byte-sized graphic novel format.  For a graphic novel biography aimed at young readers, I felt that this did a great job of highlighting many of Steve Jobs' important moments in life (compared to Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson). From his childhood growing up in a foster family to his reality distortion field as a boss at Apple to everything in between. Considering this is a abridged version of his life, much of the drama has been lightly touched on or ignored completely. Most of the family drama is forgotten about halfway through the book, and the ending was rather abrupt after his death due to cancer. The intensity of Jobs' interactions with partners and employees is also only barely reflected upon.  My only issue with the book was the typesetting. Pretty much every single line of text was handwritten in, whether in print or cursive script, which made some pages a little hard to read. When the text gets spread across the binding of the page, that can also be annoying. Other than these minor gripes, the book serves as an excellent introduction to the man who helped create Apple, though much more reading will need to be done to truly understand the facets of his personality and to learn exactly what type of legacy he left on the world. Regardless, there's much inspiration to be gleaned from this story.
4013	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"A thorough biography of Steve Jobs, told in graphic-novel style, which technically makes it not a biography, because there are made-up passages of dialogue ""to communicate a sense of what I imagine was said,"" notes the author/illustrator. (But sources are given for some direct quotes). Still, for teens who want to learn more about this computer and marketing genius and icon, but who are daunted by a text-only biography, this is a terrific book to hand them. It goes from his adoption as a baby through childhood tinkering in Silicon Valley, to college to founding Apple, explaining his personality quirks, fallout with CEO, quick mention of his daughter out of wedlock and so forth, not skipping over the negatives among the positives but not dwelling on them either. The black and white cartoony drawings are very tiny, detailed and whimsical--same style as the author's bio of Julia Child, Bon Appetit--which is not my favorite drawing style, but is still fun to read once you get the hang of it. Hand-lettered text twirls around pictures, and there are nice 2-page spreads at the decade marks of his life, showing new technology that came into use in that time (for example, in the 1960s, rabbit ears attenna, black and white tv, no remote controls, film cameras, rotary phones with cords) that today's teens will find amusing and perhaps mindboggling. Bibliography included."
4014	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"The graphic format works quite well for this biography of Steve Jobs, the man responsible for starting a computer revolution in his parents' garage. The illustrations capture the subject's personality, eccentricity, and drive for excellence, allowing readers a glimpse into his work habits and journey. Many will find it interesting to note that some of the same characteristics that contributed to his success as an innovator and businessman may have driven others away and made him a difficult employer. The title and repetitive comment about an idea being ""insanely great,"" thus, may not have been that far off the mark. The book celebrates this man's originality, penchant for not following the rules, but it spends more time noting his fashion choices while barely touching on his family life. The book also barely mentions some of his less-savory business practices and decisions. The inclusion of some historical notes about the progress of technology over the decades of Jobs's life will give teen readers a sense of how much the world has changed and how much influence Jobs had on how we communicate today. This book provides an interesting slice of life and history for a modern audience. It adds to the Steve Jobs story, but readers are advised to look for additional accounts to add to this one's take on the man. "
4015	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Over the summer I read the book Steve Jobs: Insanely Great by Jessie Hartland where in my opinion, the main theme of the book is to never give up. This graphic biography takes place in Silicon Valley, CA in 1955-2015. The main characters are Steve Jobs, Woz, Steve's Mom and Dad, Sculley, and Steve Lasseter. In Silicon Valley, a town booming with technology startups and engineers, Steve Jobs and Woz create Apple Computers. Their revolutionary computers make their company incredibly popular as they became bigger and wealthier. Then years later Steve gets fired from his own company because was too controlling and too much of a perfectionist. After he gets fired he creates another computer company that would eventually be bought by Apple. When Steve returns to Apple he works his way up the company eventually becoming the CEO again, and he creates many more revolutionary products such as the I-phone. I really enjoyed this book because it was very informative but still a lot of fun to read. In the book the author uses a comic book style of writing which kept me interested and wanting more. Therefore I would recommend this book to anyone because it is very interesting and entertaining.
4016	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I LOVED this book, it was very free flowing and short chaptered. It was very short but left an imprint on me. I can remember almost everything from the book. I do have to mention that it is a graphic novel but it was a fascinating one for lack of a better word. Steve was a orphan that was adopted by the Jobs family in California. He grew up tinkering with things to see how they work. At about the age of 15 he started creating computers and other technology and people loved it. He made a factory out of his house to make computers for anyone who wanted one. He was a technological pioneer in his art. He named his computer company Apple. I highly recommend this book. It did not keep me up at night reading it because I finished it in a day. But, if it were longer I would stay up all night reading it. I recommend this book to anyone in search for a temporary book just to buy time for another. It was an insanely great book for me and I hope it is an insanely great book for you.
4017	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book Steve Jobs, Insanely Great by Jessie Hartland is a story about Steve Jobs and how his life came to be. On February 24th,1955, Steve was born. When he was in elementary school he was brilliant but no one knew it though. One day though, In 4th grade his math teacher had noticed his brilliance and that is when everything clicked. He would go to a college called Reed and make the company that is very popular today called Apple with a man named Steve Wozniak. He would soon though quit apple on go on to make his own company called NeXt. NeXt was not a great company for steve and tanked soon after. Then, Steve decided to buy Pixar where he would make a short movie called toy story. When Toy story came out it was a huge hit and would make lots of money for Steve and pixar. Steve then realized he missed something, Apple, and that he knew he had to go back. Read the book to find out what happens. 
4018	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Steve Jobs is arguably one of the most influential people of the 20th and 21st centuries. In this graphic biography, Hartland takes a look at the good and the bad of Jobs’ personal and professional life. He explores his childhood, education, and professional life from the beginnings of Apple through Pixar and back to Apple. He doesn’t pull any punches when it comes to Jobs faults and foibles. Interspersed among the biographical parts are 2 page spreads that explain the changes in technology in the various decades of Jobs’ life. If the text were extracted, this would be a basic, and even poorly written, biography. With the the black & white drawings (which are simple and almost crude), the story becomes interesting and even entertaining. Recommended for teens and adults who are interested in the topic. 
4019	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Steve Jobs was a fascinating and controversial figure in United States history. He was a visionary and capitalized on the technological revolution at the end of the 20th century and beginning of the 21st century. Award winning illustrator Jessie Hartland has done a tremendous job of telling Job’s life story in graphic novel format in her book, “Steve Jobs: Insanely Great”. Combining pictures and words, Hartland touches on Jobs accomplishments and setbacks on the way to becoming one of the most important business successes in American history. Recommended. I spoke with Jessie Hartland about her book and that conversation can be heard here: http://dougmilesmedia.com/?p=1748
4020	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Excellent graphic book about Steve Jobs life and Apple. It is very approachable and interesting. You don't need to read a long tome to get an understanding of the genius of Steve Jobs, which is well presented in this book.  The drawings are delightful and informative. I particularly liked the two page summaries of technologies for each decade -- Technology in the 1960s, What's New in Late 1970s Technology, etc. and the Very Brief History of the Computer before 1975. Perhaps since I had a long career working with computers I am biased. However, I think that history presented in this manner is informative and interesting to everyone. I encourage you to give it a try.  
4021	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Nicely done bio of Jobs in graphic format. Hartland hits all of the salient points of his life - the good, the bad, and the ugly. There's usually a fine line between genius and madness,with most innovators turning out to be really bad at social skills and fitting in; Jobs definitely fits that mold.  This is a quick read, and I think teens will linger on the pages that describe what technology was like in the 60s, 70s, 80s, 90s, etc. Geeks will find comfort in the fact that they are not alone, and we regular folks can marvel at how Jobs' brain worked.  And after reading this, I still feel bad that Woz didn't get more credit for Apple.
4022	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Wow, I am really impressed with this biography. Hartland clearly did a mountain of research on Jobs and the evolution of technology over the last century, and then she did an amazing job of organizing, condensing, and illustrating it all. Huge thanks to this amazing author/illustrator!  I learned so much about Jobs' life and was again amazed at the huge impact he had on personal technology. Hartland balances his amazing-ness and his weaker points well, allowing the reader to pass judgment.  This book is sure to be enjoyed by anyone aged 8-88 who is curious about Steve Jobs, computers, computer animation, business, or the cultural history of the last 50 years. Highly recommended.
4023	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This is a biographic record of the life of Steve Jobs through graphic novel form. It follows the life of Steve Jobs from the moment that he was born, till the day he died, and all the Apple products in between. I really enjoyed this presentation of this content. I have read other stories about Steve Jobs, so I am relatively knowledgeable about his life, but this way of presentation made this book much more compelling and interesting. I felt that the use of the graphic novel form helped to portray elements that would not be possible in a traditional nonfiction book. Anyone who likes graphic novels, biographies, or anything about Steve Jobs would really enjoy this book. 
4025	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I didn't know much about Steve Jobs, so this was a good introduction to his life. After reading this graphic biography I kind of admire him more and like him less. The graphic biography is done in black and white and I found much of the page compositions to be difficult to read and/or follow. Hartland doesn't use many panels throughout this graphic biography, which makes it difficult to track the story/text at times. Although I liked her illustration style as it was a bit sparse and cartoonish. I also liked how the chapters were broken up into years and that she often provided a timeline of sorts of the technology products that were popular during that time period. 
4026	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A good overview of Steve's life. The illustrations are fun. However, the publisher or the author can't seem to decide who the audience should be: is this for younger readers, or an adult audience? The inclusion of Steve's personal life is too brief and ill-explained, especially the story of his first daughter, which may have made for a more touching conclusion. But if this were aimed at younger readers, could've been cut almost entirely. The ending is all too brief and feels like it needs some fleshing out.
4027	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	this graphic novel felt as if it was written for little children. the writing was hard to read at times. the language felt very dumbed down. the illustrations would have fit better in a picture book. I feel it should have been tiled the history of apple and it's creator. there was so much on the history of apple and technology in general. very little really delved into about steve jobs except in the beginning when discussed his childhood. one other thing I did not like was how it ended far to abruptly.
4029	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"Let's face it, you might not always have time for the 630-page Walter Isaacson biography of Steve Jobs. Lucky for you, you can pick up the graphic biography by Jessie Hartland and still get the gist - and take fresh inspiration from the Steve Jobs story all the same. Told through simple black and white cartoons that have an Eastern, beatnik vibe, this graphic novel depicts Jobs as a tinkering, fun-loving, precocious, free-spirit who just wasn't comfortable settling for anything that wasn't ""insanely great."" "
4030	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Enjoyed this more than I thought I would. Fascinating to know the early history of how Steve Jobs became who he was. The book references TV commercials and critical publicity for Apple that was fun to go back and see on youtube. The juvenile graphics and handwriting of the graphic novel didn't bother me at all. In fact, it may have actually helped focus my attention on the story of the biography. I would recommend this for those interested in how technology and computers came to be what they are today. Especially younger people who didn't live it.
4031	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"From an art stand-point the illustration is charming. And the way the text completely fills most pages, is unusual -- more like a children's picture book than a standard graphic novel (which is delightful). That's as far as my admiration goes. The writing... is unforgivably juvenile. The text placement... is infuriating. [why is he thinking aloud in speech bubbles??!!] The topic... is meh. I suspect that if you're into ""Steve Jobs"" you'd probably be into this. But, there are significantly better biographies in the graphic novel format to read before bothering with this one."
4032	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	An interesting biography. The book has an interesting amount of detail - sometimes there is lots of specific information, other times, it feels really light. I loved the use of the graphic format - like, this is a really good example of how a graphic format biography can really work. Recommended for middle and high school students who are looking for a biography. The graphic novel format will make it accessible for readers who won't touch the other, much thicker biographies about Jobs out there.
4033	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This is a very entertaining book to read! I really never got bored because of how quick it was it read. Every page contained new and interesting facts so it never dragged on. All of the drawings were very similar and my only complaint is that the font was hard to read at times. It looked like someones handwriting. Another good thing about the book is that most pages contained the main idea of the book so it held a setting, plot and story line. On top of that, it also contained fun little facts that you didn't need to know for the main story, but still interesting. 
4034	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book is a graphic novel outlining the life of the infamous Steve Jobs. In the 13 chapters, it covers some of the major highlights of his life including his childhood, creative thought processes, and transformation of the Apple computer.  More about this book can be found on my blog: http://hesaidbooksorme.blogspot.com  Disclaimer: I was given an ARC of this book while attending BookCon 2015. While I did not pay for the book, the opinions expressed in this book are strictly my own. 
4035	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	a good graphic novel biography - easy enough for an older child to understand. It does mention (very briefly) his LSD use, but stresses more his creative, quirky, independent thought process. Some of the graphics are a bit muddled and hard to read with the font used. I did like the quotes. If you don't want to struggle through a long biography, this is a good overview. A little too brief for someone who really wants to know what made Steve Jobs tick. I read this in one sitting. 
4036	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I give this book my highest rating for the information and research in it that is in it and for communicating the vast influence in technology (or anything) that one individual can have. I would venture to say that everyone able to read this book has owned, used, or viewed multiple products envisioned or designed by Jobs. I will be recommending it to my high school students and really, everyone. It's quick, interesting, and informative. 
4038	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I'm not really sure that teens are clamoring to read about Steve Jobs, but for those who may be interested, this graphic treatment is both cool and visually appealing. It's not a tidy, timeline-of-events sort of biography, and it's more upbeat than even-handed, but it gives readers a basic sketch of Jobs. The real appeal here, though, is the freewheeling design, which is both eye-catching and apt for the subject.
4039	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Engaging and inspiring biography of one of the most enigmatic and interesting geniuses of our time. Illustrated in muted blacks, whites, and grays, this graphic novel begins with Steve's birth and adoption and ends with his death from pancreatic cancer. In between not only are major milestones addressed, but the author seeks to delve into how life events may have informed later decisions in Job's life and work.  
4040	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"Quick fun read for those who don't have the time to plough through Isaakson's tome. If you are looking to learn something beyond the hype about Jobs, she does a good enough summary. Hartland pretty much sums up Job's milestones in Isaakson's book. If you are reading to check out the graphics, I'd give it a ""meh."" This book did make me start picking up Isaakson's book, again, to finish reading it through. :)"
4041	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Jessie Hartland does a good job distilling Steve Jobs for kids, although adults will find a lot to like about this graphic novel as well. It's simple, down-to-earth and charmingly illustrated with hand-written biographical passages, a hallmark of many of the biographies Hartland has penned. Hartland paints a rather rosy picture of Jobs, but it's an appropriate image given the audience for which this book was designed.
4042	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Jobs was eccentric, but brilliant! A different boss to work for. He brought the world of APPLE computer, Pixar, digital animation, and the IPOD music player, IPHONE and IPAD. He lived each day as if it were his last and made his mark on the world. He struggled with personal relationships though. He easily got lost in what he was doing! But despite all his faults, he was an amazing and brilliant man. I was turned off by the illustrations though.
4043	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book was phenominal in terms of information. Steve Jobs Insanely great is a quick read if you want to do a report, or just a last minute read for school. It is basically a biography of Steve Jobs and in an awesome comic form. Even if you are a Stve Jobs hater, they also mention his competitors such as the one and onely Bill Gates in hilarious fashion. So if you are into a quick and fun read while learning a ton of new things, this book is just right for you.
4044	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Interesting topic and I learned a great deal about Jobs life and aims, but much of the pages seemed crammed with text and information. Considering how much Jobs tried to simplify his designs and brand, this is a strange choice for his biography. And yet, it does manage to convey his drive, energy and need to be constantly improving and changing.
4045	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"I love this graphic novel. It tells the most important facts from Steve's Job life and it is simple and entertaining. I didn't like the drawings that much though, that's why 4 stars. It could be drawn a little bit more... Perfect... In this case "" Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication"" (Leonardo DA Vinci) doesn't really work."
4046	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I liked this biography much more than I thought I would. Across every page, I felt a deep sense of excitement, inspiration, and yet, sadness. What a visionary man! Steve Jobs defied all naysaying, begged and borrowed creativity where he pleased, and left the world a much more exciting and productive place.
4047	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This is a fascinating graphic novel that follows Steve Job's major accomplishments. He didn't seem like a very likable guy, but I liked how the author concentrates more on his drive for perfection which moved technology forward. The graphic novel format made all the information easy to understand. I really liked it. 
4048	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"The layout/formatting of this is anything but simple; often confusing and with too much going on in the pages I found it difficult to simply enjoy (pun intended). One of the key messages Steve Jobs kept on saying throughout the book was to ""keep it simple."" That didn't seem to apply here.  However, I enjoyed reading/learning more about Steve Jobs."
4049	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The art style seems to fit Steve Jobs' irreverent attitude nicely. The two page spreads of popular technology of each decade were perfectly placed, giving appropriate context to each new Jobs-influenced piece of technology. However, the overall picture of Jobs might come out a little too rosy as Hartland glosses over some of the darker aspects of his life.
4050	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Jessie Hartland manages to incorporate the major achievements of Steve Jobs and the astonishing advances of technology in the last few decades into one highly interesting graphic novel. It will be too brief a review for people really wanting to dig into his achievements, but its an important review for everyone else. 
4051	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Great graphic novel representation of the epic life and innovation of Steve Jobs. The author seemed to know just which juicy bits of Steve's life to include, and also when it was appropriate to take an aside to explain a certain concept or invention. Steve certainly seemed like a genius- a bit of a tyrant, but definitely a genius. Great for teens or precocious middle schoolers. 
4052	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I fairly enjoyed it. It made me laugh and it showed my Jobs story in a different way than the other books/articles I've read. I feel like I still learned something new even tho I knew most of the information that was shared. However, I felt the need to know more about the last few years of his life.
4053	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"This book is ""insanely great!"" It was a chance pick up at the library. Thought the graphic novel format would be entertaining for my 11 yr old. I started reading it just a bit after he told me a funny story from it. This book is surprisingly entertaining, fast paced and interesting. Never thought I would give a book like this 5 stars, it is a pleasant surprise!"
4054	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I borrowed this book from the library because we have a unit on tinkerers and creative geniuses. Although I'm not much into graphic novels, I know students will appreciate that aspect.  A lot of information was left out but a lot was also poured into this book. I like the art because it's totally non-intimidating. This is my first graphic novelization of a biography. I like it.
4055	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I do like this - it's a nice little mini-intro to the life of Steve Jobs, and does a good job of contextualizing what was happening around him as he developed these great innovations. But with so much discussion of his design esthetic - sleek and minimalist - the artwork just did not fit the subject at all.
4056	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I am fairly positive that Steve Jobs would enjoy this graphic biography about himself. It really highlight how innovative he was in a very accessible format. Look for this book in the stores in July. I reviewed an Advanced Readers copy of the book.
4057	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This was a good, but not great graphic novel biography of Steve Jobs. The ending was rather abrupt (jumping from his Stanford commencement speech to his death) and I kept feeling that the black-and-white illustrations would have worked better in full color.
4058	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I read this merely because it was free and looked kind of interesting. Pretty good book--great for any young person with an interest in technology (which does not include myself, but what can I say? It was free.)
4059	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A wonderful tribute to and telling of Jobs' life from the very beginning to his unfortunate and abrupt end. This book also shows children the technology of each era of Jobs' life, demonstrating the necessity for the technology that Steve Jobs gave us. 
4060	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The graphics of this book were quirky, but the amount of information that is every little nook and cranny are amazing, this book is like reading his biographical memoir, I was impressed with the quality of the work.
4061	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I have been underestimating graphic novels. This is just the most amazing book! So much information, well written and beautifully illustrated - Steve Jobs himself would have been impressed. An insanely great book!!
4062	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Graphic novel that give a recap of Steve Jobs's life and accomplishments. Anyone who is curious about Jobs or all things Apple and are looking for a quick and entertaining read will enjoy this one.
4063	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I've always liked the life about SJ. And with this mini-illustrated-biography I think I know now a lot of things I didn't had. It was too short, I thought that it would be a little more deeper but it's okay and enough for me by now. 
4064	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This biography in graphic format presents the story of the ultimate American entrepreneur, who brought us Apple Computer, Pixar, Macs, iPods, iPhones and more, this unique and stylish book is sure to appeal to the legions of readers who live and breathe the techno-centric world Jobs created. 
4066	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This graphic novel biography on Steve Jobs would have been a five star read if it had not been for the TERRIBLE art and text presentation; which at times was challenging to read. The information was fantastic, holding back nothing on this creative yet deeply flawed individual. 
4067	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Thought this was a great read, I've watch a few films about Job's himself and was very interested in learning more about him like how he handled his businesses as well as his family life. Overall I enjoyed reading and learning from this book 
4068	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This was a great book for my biography project on Steve Jobs. It was entertaining and filled with interesting facts and events that happened in his life. the illustrations are drawn like a kid which makes it fun to read!
4069	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book is a great visual on the life of Steve Jobs. How and why he started Apple in his family garage is all compacted in this great book. How did he do it all and keep his cool? This is a great book for people who want a better insight on how Apple was created. 
4070	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This was a really cute, fun and simple graphic novel (a lot like Apple) and I read it in like an hour or two
4071	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Really loved this. I have always admired Jobs and previously read a few books about Apple so this book helped round out my knowledge of the company and its founder.
4072	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Probably best for middle schoolers with some of the content. A good glimpse into Steve Jobs' life that will likely create further reading about Jobs, the tech industry, etc.
4073	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	An accessable telling of this famed digital giant told in paper, pencil and ink! Good for students.
4074	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The graphic format of this book really worked well. I liked the drawings and style of writing that tells readers interesting facts about this incredible inventor and thinker.
4075	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Steve Jobs/Apple biography. In graphic form. 
4076	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This was an entertaining way to learn about Steve Jobs life. I'd already read Walter Isaacson's tome, so enjoyed reviewing some of what I already kn and learning some new things. 
4078	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Steve Jobs seems to be one of the contemporary names that many kids know and ask about. This is a new graphic-novel biography. 
4079	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This books is great for kids and adults. It is in graphic form, so kids do not lose interest in this book. We used it for our homeschool, and my kids are 9 and 11. I recommend it!
4080	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Engaging graphic novel with insight into the creative and somewhat troubled genius of Steve Jobs. YA
4081	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Quirkily drawn and fast paced
4082	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Loving the blend of graphic novel and biography...
4084	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I personally love Apple products and I like to know the thought process behind them and it's great finding out about Steve's history.
4085	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Fascinating look at a fascinating subject.
4086	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Graphic format for this biography works very well. Interesting as well as informative
4087	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	About Apple products 
4089	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This is possibly my favorite Steve Jobs biography… It tells an honest version of Jobs' life, and captures his creative spirit through Jessie Hartland's whimsical drawing. This book is Insanely Great.
4090	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A fun, quick overview of Steve Jobs life and career. The art is loose and quirky, and it emphasizes Steve's attention to detail in all of his products.
4091	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The art was a complete turn off. The lines felt too lightly drawn, too ephemeral. In general, I also found the panels uncomfortably crowded.
4092	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Informative, yet fun
4093	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	The best graphic/ biography book!!!
4094	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A graphic novel detailing the life of Steve Jobs, founder of Apple. Very informative but the black and white format is dull. Even a little bit of color would have added a lot.
4095	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book is actually a very creative way to show Steve Job's life. It shows it in a very entertaining and visual way, as there is not much text. 
4096	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I learned a lot of tidbits about Steve Jobs I never knew. I can't say I loved the illustrations but I did learn quite a bit. 
4097	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A quick, entertaining way to learn about the life and career of Steve Jobs. 
4099	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	An interesting and informative graphic novel about the life of Steve Jobs. A great pick for middle schoolers.
4100	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Good story with cute doodles. Some important parts of Steve Jobs' achievements are missing in this book. However, still good enough to read and enjoy
4101	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Very interesting. I like how this book focused more on the work that Steve did and not his personal life so much. This would pair well with Blumenthal's bio. 
4104	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A Steve Jobs' biography is interesting but the story of his life written in an engaging graphic format brought the book to another level. It is smart and inspiring just like to Steve Jobs. 
4106	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book was amazing! I love how the comic book structure makes it easy and fun to read but still super informative. I would totally recommend this book!!
4107	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book is a great quick read if you're wanting to learn about Steve jobs. It takes you through his whole life beginning to end. It was a fantastic book. 
4108	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I liked how it explained his whole life and what great things he did.
4109	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This is a really interesting book about Steve jobs it's good if your not a super heavy reader this book was kind of more comicy. But all around it was great
4110	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A straight forward graphic biography of the life of Steve Jobs giving the facts without glossing them over or leaving them out.
4112	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Really enjoyed about this book. It gives me a big picture about Steve Jobs in instant and fun way.
4113	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This book was pretty short, fun and interesting as it reveals Steve Jobs mysterious past and shows that he had a very meticulous crafting mind. The illustrations were really well done too.
4114	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I learned a lot that I didn't know before about Steve Jobs. It was a short read but very interesting.
4115	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Entertaining book. Loved the drawings. Want to read more by this author. A solid 3.
4116	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"eye opening bngt wow, bnr"" seambisius itu, salut, bngt. bngt. "
4117	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	review to come
4118	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Quirky illustrations and interesting tidbits. Enjoyed it.
4119	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Not the easiest to read. Skims over a lot of trauma.
4120	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Wonderful book! Easy to read and enjoy! Your children will like it too! 
4121	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	A graphic novel version of Steve Job's life. 
4122	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Such great illustrations. 
4124	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Teens hooked on all technology Apple will get a fascinating overview of the emotionally complicated genius who founded the company. Readers may be inspired to pursue heftier bios to learn more.
4125	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	Engaging and very sweet! The portrayal of Jobs and his bad attitude were definitely softened for younger readers, but it's an enjoyable, inspirational read. Pair with the 1980s tech documentary Triumph of the Nerds for a gripping history of one side of the computer industry. 
4127	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"I love the push I'm seeing with the application of the ""graphic novel"" style toward biographies and history. This particular bio on Steve Jobs was informative, entertaining, and even funny at times. What's missing, though, is depth of emotion. Don't expect much depth with the psychological and social dynamics within Steve Jobs and his circle. They're implicit but not the focus. Think of this is a long timeline of Steve Jobs the (stubborn) dreamer."
4128	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I think this is a very thorough depiction of Steve Jobs for the audience that it is intended for. It provides a detailed view of his life and the contributions he made to modern technology. I like the sections where the author included pictures of technology from different time periods so that kids can see how far the basic technology that they use every day has evolved.
4130	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I am a huge fiction fan and when I pick a book to read for entertainment, I never choose biographies. I saw this book at the library where I work and I could not put it down. The writer and illustrator make his story seem so alive with personal facts about him and technology in general. I learned so much and I enjoyed reading at the same time.
4131	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	I was not expecting a book packed with sketches, but it quickly unfolds several dimensions of this man's and his business' lives in an effective story telling manner
4132	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	cool and good
4133	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	This was a really good book about Steve jobs’s life. The one thing I didn’t like was that the words were very crammed up and the handwriting was very light. Overall I learned a lot and would recommend this book to anyone.
4134	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	If you have wondered how Steve jobs came to be Steve jobs, or if you have ever owned an iPhone you will want to read Steve Jobs: Insanely Great. You would want to read this book because it shows how Steve Jobs came to be the Steve Jobs that we all know. You would also want to read this book because it shows how much Steve Jobs struggled to create a company that he wanted to make. 
4135	Steve_Jobs:_Insanely_Great	"The book is amazing. It is well illustrated and shows how ""insanely great"" of a man Steve Jobs was. I love how it also showed his faults and pointed out his weak spots within the story of his life. Overall, this was a book that simply had to be made!"
4136	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"""You see these empty hands? One day they'll hold everything I want.""  I did four years as an art major, and never once heard the name Yayoi Kusama.     That's a crying shame, 'cause she's had a fascinating life. She hung out with Dali and Warhol, created installations, and even staged a few orgies - in the name of art, of course, as she was personally disgusted by sex. But, oh, she had inner demons that drove her to create, an issue that this graphic novel explores quite beautifully.  Macellari follows Kusama from her unhappy girlhood in Japan, through her rise to fame in sixties, to the current day. (The artist is now 91.) It's a fascinating look at both the art world and mental illness, and the artwork is stunning. I love the limited palette, and the repeating patterns.           This book is a work of art in itself.  *Thanks to Net Galley and the publisher for a glance at this lovely title."
4137	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I know the struggle is real.  The more your family, especially when it's your parents, when they are against what you live for.  When you have your dreams pushing you to love more and work more and achieve more;  When no one dear and close to you are the worse mortal enemies no one sees;  When you actually suffer every waking moment of your life when you struggle with being yourself;  Mental health, identity, being born as a woman, a profession taken to be as men's - all these issues are represented and illustrated quite well.  I would not allow myself to judge what artists do what they do for their work as their work as they art. I would not judge an artist for their life or their personal relationships.  An amazingly done biographical book.  Dark and sad but captivating!   Thank you NetGalley for the ARC.
4138	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"(Yayoi) Kusama is a Japanese pop artist who lived and worked in both New York and Tokyo. As of 2022 she is 93, living in a psychiatric institution in Japan, where she voluntarily admitted herself in 1977. She was as well known and influential in the sixties as her friend Andy Warhol. Her closest friend may have been the artist Joseph Cornell. She was psychologically abused by her mother, the trauma from which she may never have fully recovered from.  Kusama was fascinated by bright, happy colors, did a lot of work around something she knew little about, apparently: Sex. She organized body-painting ""happenings"" and other kinds of performance art events. She used art to rebel against her parents, to try to heal herself, and to try and get famous, all of which worked/works for her on many levels. She is known for her efforts in ""outsider"" fashion, especially clothes with dots. She designed clothes for public orgies of various kinds. Go ahead! Look it up! Mostly performance art work, as I recall.  This book is well done, beautifully illustrated and produced, a graphic biography by Elisa Macellari that introduces new generations to her work, which I think could really inspire some young artists. Just by coincidence I also this week read Autumn by Ali Smith, which resuscitates another sixties pop artist, Pauline Doty. Women who may not have gotten the credit others (men) who were doing similar experimental work at the time, big surprise.  Here's an award-winning experimental film (maybe 23 minutes) from 1967, The Obliteration of Kusama, that I think I actually saw in the mid seventies:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fb2P8...  Some representative artwork from Kusama:  https://www.google.com/search?q=kusam..."
4139	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"I have to confess I had never heard of the artist Yayoi Kusama, which probably says a lot about how people of colour are still systematically ""forgotten"" in art history.     Kusama was quite a prolific artist in the 60s in New York, giving her whole life over to her art, which basically was a way to subdue her mental health issues. During the 70s she moved back to her country of birth, Japan, and basically was forgotten about until the late 80s.     This biographical graphic novel (biogravel?) tells her story, in exquisite, fine art. Sometimes the integration of an artist's art into a graphic novel can be clumsy - that is not the case here, where the book's art and Kusama's art easily flow into eachother.     Kusama's story is very moving, and her mental health problems are depicted with a lot of care.     I'm still shocked at the thought that someone like her has managed to slip through history's net. Read this book.  (Received an ARC through Edelweiss)"
4140	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Simply beautiful even if very short.
4141	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama was a magical and visually-enriching read which left me wanting more.  I must admit my ignorance first of all as I wasn't aware of this incredibly talented Japanese artist beforehand :( but since then I have been reading more about Yayoi Kusama's life and her artwork which is stunning!  This graphic novel depicts Kusama's life as a child through to the height of her fame in USA where her fans included Dali and Warhol, and afterwards when she returned to Japan after her health declined. Despite the artwork being a glorious feast for the senses, this work discusses the artist's fragile mental health which at times is very hard to read but is ultimately beautifully handled.  Kusama is about following your dreams, pursuing your own path in life, about belonging and feeling alone, acceptance and embracing change and making the art that you want to. It's an inspiring story with vivid illustrations which sums up the equally vivid and free-spirited Yayoi Kusama!
4144	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	2.5 rounded up  A quick read providing a brief biography of the artist. The illustrations were fun and I liked how they - and the colour scheme - took inspiration from Kusama's work, although I felt that the text itself was lacking in places and would have been better if it had been beefed up with a bit more information about her work and background.  Thank you Netgalley and Laurence King Publishing Ltd for the advance copy, which was provided in exchange for an honest review.
4145	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Way back in December, before all of this COVID-19 stuff started, I took the kids to visit an installation by Kusama at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston. It as an immersive experience where you were broken into small groups and stepped into a mirrored room full of polka dot protrusions. Amazing stuff.  So, when I saw that a new graphic biography of the artist was being released I decided to check it out. Yayoi Kusama was born in Japan and moved to the US in the late 1950's to pursue her art career. For most of her life she had experienced psychiatric issues and some of this obviously had some impact on her art. She was a contemporary with Warhol in NYC and her provocative art sometimes included performance pieces featuring naked models on the streets of New York.  This is a great read for anyone interested in Kusama or in art in general. The art work is in a limited color palette featuring primarily reds and turquoises and is stunning. The books starts out with a style more similar to classical Japanese art and shifts to be more of Kusama's own unique style as the book progresses.  Thank you to the publisher for the review copy!
4146	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	3.5 ⭐️ Following the prolific Yayoi Kusama from birth to old age, we see her struggling with breaking free of the confines of Japanese normality. At young she is discouraged from pursuing art by her parents but her love for art transcends all. Her longest relationship is with art and has always been in the forefront in her life. We follow her life through her successes and personal hardships. We see her struggling with battle with mental illness which I thought was some wonderfully.  The art in this graphic novel was beautiful and really embodies Kusama‘s essence. The colours did a great job converting her inner feeling. We can see a change in colour palette from her childhood to adulthood in New York. As her style evolves, so does the style in the book. In the beginning the comic is confined to boxes but as it progresses it becomes more free flowing and grander, exactly like Kasuma. I would give the art a 5/5.  I would recommend this to anyone who has an interest in art or the artist.
4147	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Unfortunately, I didn't have any inkling about Yayoi Kusama. Thanks, Netgalley to introduce me to such an inspiring artist's struggle. The artwork of this book is quite fascinating and I think portrayal of her work in this book will amuse many artists. The only letdown I have felt are the texts. The plot seems unfinished and It does not give any background how Kusama had got the fame from her struggle. Overall, it's a brief biography of Kusama with amusing artwork which you can read in almost one hour. 
4148	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	thanks to netgalley and the publisher for providing me with a free copy in exchange for an honest review.  kusama is a graphic biography of the contemporary artist yayoi kusama. we're invited into her life to learn the struggles she had to bear since she was born. starting from growing up in an extremely conservative rural japanese town, to earning her place in america, it is clear that nothing was easy for her.  kusama fought against the prejudices that dominated her era and, through her art, manifested a message of gender equality and freedom of expression. we can see how ahead of time she was with her nude performances that encouraged the exploration of sexual orientation.  besides all of that, the art from this graphic novel was excellent and did a great resemblance to kusama's real art. i recommend this to anyone who is interested in reading about her life and the battles women had to fight in the art world where men took advantage of them in order to beneficiate financially (like stealing their ideas and taking credit for their work.)
4149	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"I was wholly ignorant of the life and career of artist Yayoi Kusama before picking up this book from the library. Because of the ""Graphic Novel"" subtitle, I actually thought I was getting a work of fiction, not biographical. So no, despite the cover image, this is not a reboot of Richie Rich's pal, Little Dot.  Macellari glides through Kusama's life, from her childhood in Japan to her artistic development and peak during a stay in the U.S.A. in the 1960s and '70s, when she hangs with Andy Warhol and Salvador Dali, pushing boundaries with her phallic sculptures, installation pieces, and the nudity and sexuality of the performance art pieces she directed. The focus is on Kusama's work, with vague mention of the mental health issues that led to her dropping out of the spotlight upon her return to Japan, where she has spent decades living in a hospital while continuing to produce art and attending periodic revivals of her work.  I'm left tantalized if unsatisfied, but I'm happy for the introduction to this fascinating individual."
4150	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Translated from the Italian by Edward Fortes.  This YA graphic biography is about the life and art of Yayoi Kusama. We are introduced to the young Kusama in Japan, learn about her move to the US, her creative endeavors, and her rise to being a successful artist.  I knew nothing about the artist, so this comic was a really good introduction to her life and work. Once I saw some of her art, I realized that I have seen her work in various exhibitions, though did not connect the dots (ha!) until reading this book. The illustrations are good, and you get a good sense of Kusama's creative spirit. I plan on finding a biography/documentary to learn more.  You can see my video review here: https://youtu.be/DbRvPtp0CMI
4152	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This version of Kusama’s life, while being more akin to a hagiography than a biography, really provided great insight into her life and the New York art scene. Unknowingly, I think the author may have even underscored the presence of Taijin kyofusho, a Japanese culture bound syndrome that is based on the intense fear that one’s body parts or functions displease , embarrass, or are offensive to others. This paired with the early events of the artist’s life gives the reader a doorway into understanding Yayoi’s art and personality on a deeper level.  I loved how the artist’s style works cohesively with that of Kusama herself, also representation of different cultures with respect to the timeline and portrayal of mental illnesses was so refreshing. I would be remiss if I didn’t recommend this artist and her work to the people around me. As is the case with most great artists, she remains severely underappreciated. To me, she was years ahead of her time, representing not only sexuality as the spectrum it is, but also using art for what it was meant to be- a way to express and deal with one’s emotions.
4155	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	First book of 2024
4156	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I just enjoyed reading this!  To be honest, until I finished reading this book, I wasn't familiar with the artist Yayoi Kusama and her work. But once I finished, I did look up on the internet about her work.  The author has done an amazing job in depicting Kusama's style of work. To a common admirer like me, her art is full of fun. But once I read this biography my appreciation for her work has no words especially considering the troubled imagination from which her work spawned.  Yayoi Kusama's story is classic example of- how believing in your dreams irrespective of what anyone thinks and pursuing them with hard work, will definitely lead you to the path of success.  Thank You to NetGalley and Laurence King Publishing for this ARC!
4157	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I received this book from Netgalley in exchange of an honest review.   I knew I had to try out this book, a graphic novel about a great artist? Sign me up. Plus, the cover was just fantastic and captured the Kusama perfectly.  This one is about mental health, about dreams, about family, about finding your way in the world, setting your own path. It was beautifully drawn, and there was also text accompanying the illustrations to tell us more and give us dialogue.  We see how Kusama lives in a strict family, a father who cheats on his wife, a mother who is horrible and mean (at least in my eyes because no parent would do the things she did). We see how Kusama hears things that aren’t there/shouldn’t talk. We see her lose herself in her art and try to make something out of it as she definitely isn’t letting her mom’s opinions take over and I loved that. I loved that she went out to find someone to get her out of the country, to free herself from the shackles of her family.  We see how her mental health affects her. I already read some about Kusama and her mental health but seeing it drawn is a total different story. I think the author did a great job on illustrating the mental health parts.  I loved seeing various other artists who knew/know Kusama, like Salvador Dali.  OK, there was one scene that had me laughing and that was when Joseph called. How in heavens name is the phone staying on her head like that? Believe me, that is not how phones work. 😛  The book was amazing and we see her from young to old, we see her whole journey and history and it while this book was just 126 pages it never felt rushed. Every part of Kusama’s history gets a spot. Wonderfully done! I would highly recommend this one.  Review first posted at https://twirlingbookprincess.com/
4158	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"i enjoyed reading this so much!!!!! i love kusama's works and have been reading her art books for leisure + inspiration. i first got to know more about kusama back in 2019, when i had the opportunity to catch her documentary film called ""kusama:infinity"". i cried - was so fascinated and inspired by everything she does. so to come across its first graphic novel is SUCH A GEM and definitely brings bACK ALL THE FEELS.  when i was reading, i also thought of the people who have not really heard of kusama/not familiar with her works and how would they feel if they read this book. even though it went through most of the events that kusama went through in her life, i felt that there are more things that could have been elaborated in here so i guess this is more for readers who are just looking for a brief introduction about kusama's life. overall, i would highly recommend to watch the documentary first so that you would be able to fully appreciate elisa's illustrations and of course, kusama's incredible journey.  "
4159	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Yayoi Kusama’s infinity mirrors show at the hisrshhorn in 2016 was one of the first major exhibitions i had the pleasure of attending. Since, she’s continued to be a source of inspiration to me and always an artist I look out for. I’ve done so much research chronicling her life, and this graphic novel does such a stellar job at breaking down the major components if her life without trivializing or brushing past any part of it. On top of that, the illustrations are AMAZING. I enjoyed this read so much, it’s such a great introduction to the life of Yayoi!! 
4160	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A graphic novel about the artist Yayoi Kusama. It was interesting to find out a little more about her and I thought the illustrations fit her art very well. An interesting way to read a biography embedded in the art.
4161	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I have to admit that I've never even heard of this artist or her journey before reading this graphic biography of hers. I love pop colors and her style is energetic, fun, and its circumstances are different.  I always love reading women's success stories and especially if they face struggles to achieve what they want, and Kusama being from a conservative family in Japan, to do what she did in New York, was quite impressive.  After reading it, I looked for her art online and I have to say the the graphic novel is quite true to her style and her iconic paintings.  I thank Netgalley for the digital ARC.
4162	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I like Yayoi Kusama's art, but I didn't know much about her life as a person, so I figured this nonfiction graphic novel would be up my alley. I liked the art of the comic and felt that it paid homage to her work rather than just copying it. But sadly the book was rather brief, and jumped from topic to topic without much exploration.  I really wanted to know more about everything that came up: her moving back and forth between Japan and the US, her mental illness, her being sex-repulsed (I feel like she is one of the very few celebrities who are out about being sex-repulsed), her queer themes, her rivalry with Andy Warhol, everythingggg. I would've either cut down on the themes and explored the remaining ones more thoroughly, or just had a longer book (which, of course, isn't always possible due to a variety of factors).  The book made me want to learn more about Yayoi Kusama's life, so I think I'm going to read her autobiography. :) _____ Source of the book: Lawrence Public Library
4164	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	🔴 Yayoi Kusama (1929, Japan) lives her work to the fullest. She suffers from obsessive anxiety and a sense of anguish that would never leave her. Like herself is her work, psychedelic, image and action, infinity and reflection. Total obliteration.  Macellari (1981, Italy) captured these aspects of her very well. She uses just enough words to support the story, that is a very visual one where you connect through the imagery in which she uses multiple layers to tell her story, also in the choice of her colours and the subtle return of main motives. It is even a good idea to sometimes pick up the book and hold it close to your eyes and disappear into the pictures as you would have done with one of Kusama's infinity nets.  I adored the artwork in this graphic novel, the clear lineation, the colour palette. Of course, there are all the familiarities of Kusama's work. The dots, the red, the phalluses, the pumpkins, mirrors, performances and statements she made. But reading it a second time I noticed how delicate she integrated Japanese prints in the story backgrounds and how well she made visual connections between experiences Kusama had as a child and her following work at the end of the book.  The only thing I really missed were the last decades of Kusama's life, don't get me wrong the final panels were grand, but I would have liked it if those last years had at least been pictured in a couple of extra pages. It might be due to arrangements made with Kusama as she is still alive though.  🔴 Yayoi Kusama (1929, Matsumoto, Japan), who was a self-described “obsessional artist,” known for her extensive use of polka dots and for her infinity installations. She employed painting, sculpture, performance art, and installations in a variety of styles, including Pop art and Minimalism. This graphic novel is an introduction to her life and work.  Voor een inkijkje: https://www.instagram.com/p/CNNSqhUri1f/
4165	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama: The Graphic Novel by Elisa Macellari is a biography on the well known Avant-garde sculptor, painter and novelist - Yayoi Kusama. So it makes sense that it's a graphical biography. I'll admit at this point that I wasn't aware of who Yayoi Kusama is before reading this novel.  Elisa Macellari through this book has fan-girled and showcased her love for the artist. The story of Yayoi's life has been beautifully illustrated and told in the simplest of ways. For those who like me are unaware of who Yayoi Kusama is, let's talk a little about the subject of this book.  Yayoi Kusama is a Japanese artist, sometimes referred to as ‘the princess of polka dots'. She moved from Japan to America in 1957. Although she makes all sorts of art – paintings, sculptures, performances and installations – they all have one thing in common: DOTS!  The novel beautifully illustrated the major events in her life which led her to where she is today. From a girl whose own mother would tear up her art work, to dealing with hallucinations (which led to her using only polka dots) throughout her life and other severe mental disorders too, Yayoi Kusama is an inspiration to many! She is bold, she is fearless and she is talented as hell.  I've always known that polka dots were a huge thing during the 70s but how did they become so popular and how did thousands of circles put together become such a huge thing? I found out through this story and I have been in complete awe of the entire concept since.  I rate this novel 3.5 out of 5 bookmarks. The illustrations were brilliant, a perfect ode to the illustrator's inspiration. The story telling flowed smoothly. This book is fabulous not because of how IT is, rather it's fabulous because it'll make you fall in love and be in awe of Yayoi Kusama too! But I also felt like it lacked some major descriptions about the subject too, one example is her take on pumpkins which is a major inspiration to some of her art pieces.  But I still highly recommend giving this graphic novel a read, it'll hardly take you more than one sitting and will leave you mesmerized by Kusama's journey to fame and excellence.  I'd like to thank Netgalley and Laurence King Publishing for providing me with a copy in lieu of an honest review. I'd also like to congratulate and thank the author – Elisa Macalleri for introducing me to Kusama's art and her journey!
4167	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Got this graphic novel as a secret Santa gift on Christmas eve and I really love it. The book tells the story or Yayoi Kusama. Kusuma grew up in Japan but really starts to evolve as an artist in New York. Her parents never really accepted her life choices. She'll always carry this knowledge with her.  Kusama is a real rebel who is mostly known for her happenings in the 70s. She drew polkadots on basically everything. Including naked assistants.  Kusama never made a secret of her mental illnesses. I think illustrator Elisa Macellari was able to portrait the psychological struggles perfectly.  The illustrations, compositions and frames are done beautifully in this novel. I think the combination of bigger colour fields and thin lines really works out great.  This was an amazing gift. Highly recommend!
4168	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	thank you so much to NetGalley for providing me with an ARC! this graphic novel was so beautiful. i’m a longtime fan of yayoi kusama and it was eye opening to read this experience of her life. the illustrations were gorgeous and i loved the color palette! it was a quick and easy read with some really lovely art to accompany it. 
4169	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thank you to the publisher for giving me this copy in exchange for an honest review.  I really loved this. Especially the art style. It's so unique an captivating.  The story is quite dark but yet beautiful. It really shows that when you have a dream and you pursue it, it doesn't matter what your parents or family members think. They will be proud of your achievements in the end no matter what. So don't let their prejudice make you choose your path around the world.  I thought this read was very fun and well paced and would recommend it very much.
4170	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I've always been enchanted with Kusama's works when I started following an art page in Twitter uplifting art by women. This graphic biography lends a creative lens on the life of the eccentric Yayoi Kusama.  Like most artists, Kusama's parents wasn't supportive of her artistic pursuits forcing her to forge her own path. The stereotype that artists have to be mentally ill and penniless isn't that baseless after all as Yayoi was in the throes of a serious illness all throughout her life. Art became her reprieve and a way for her to process her ideas and emotions.  The only installation I know of Kusama before was the one with phalluses and polka dots as well as the pumpkins. Her other eccentric works are highlighted here as well and we even get to see renowned artists like Salvador Dali and Andy Warhol! I have no idea that they were friends but this just goes to show how women of color are more often than not forgotten in the art scene.  While I like the overall aesthetic and art style of the graphic biography, I felt like there's so many details left out and even Kusama's inclination to pumpkins weren't given some spotlight here! I know for a fact she identifies as one 😂 I really wished that the writing expounded more of her life.  All in all this was a great read and I'm very thankful for Laurence King Publishing for sending me an eARC of this.
4171	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I really wanted to like this book; I've seen some of Kusama's recent aesthetically beautiful pieces (eg Infinity Mirror Rooms) and was excited to find out more. I love graphic novels and I find the medium has fresh potential for nonfiction, so I had high hopes.  Unfortunately, the book is empty. It's not very long at all (~120 pages) and while reading it I repeatedly had the feeling that I was experiencing (and I admit I cringe to write this) an illustrated Wikipedia article. The author/artist lists several sources at the end, from articles to Kusama's own autobiography, and so I would have naturally expected a deeper dive including some specifics of Kusama's life, perhaps slightly tailored to fit a narrative style, but I didn't really get any of that here. It was genuinely as though I were reading a bullet-pointed summary of Kusama's life over some art.  Elements of Kusama's life are glossed over-- the book discusses her extreme aversion to sex, but never why she feels that way, particularly when anecdotes or quotes would be most effective-- and nothing really leads into anything else. The book hints at a rivalry with Warhol when he 'steals' some of her models, but never follows up on that, leaving me unsure whether they had a large conflict in real life or nothing at all. But if nothing, why mention it...? And so on went the story.  This is a nitpick, but so much of her art was not even mentioned, let alone explained... the blurb I read purposefully called upon her 'Instagrammable' art, which would imply some attention to more recent pieces, but the book lacked even that. Of course, artists' biographies don't have to include every piece, God forbid, but if you're going to mention her most famous recent ones why wouldn't you... discuss them...?  While we're at it, the text itself switched tense often. Once it switched between past and present across a two-page spread. I feel weird even bringing this up. I really wanted to like this book, and then... all of these problems... and I leave feeling guilty for not enjoying myself, which is not how anybody wants to feel after reading a book. This review, I'll be honest, is depressing me.  I honestly don't think this book is worth reading, which is extremely unfortunate to say. It was like reading a book that had had several pages yanked out in random places: strangely contextless and lacking substance. I don't feel as though I learned much about Kusama, and though the bonus star here is for the art, the book simply doesn't have anything that makes up for what it lacks.
4172	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama is probably the most famous artist that no one outside of the art world, has ever heard of. And yet, we all know about Andy Worhal, who was a rival and a contemporary.  This short biographical graphic novel goes over her life, from her point of view, full of dots, always dots, because that is what she is famous for.  We go over how she left Japan, and made it to the United States to make her mark on the world. And her mark, other than little dots, was dots on people, performance art.  And she is still alive, 91 years old. Amazing woman, based on what little the book goes into of her life. Wrote to Georgia O'Keeffe to help her get into the art world.  Highly recommended as a way for others to learn about this amazing artist, and seek out more information about her, just as I did after reading this.  Thanks to Netgalley for making this book available for an honest review.
4173	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Wow, I adored this graphic novel. The polka dots are iconic but I didn't know Kusama's history and the novel makes me crave more about her endeavors. Her troubled history, her dalliances with household names Warhol, etc., her nudist activism - fascinating, all of it and I'm ashamed I didn't know more about her. Thank you for opening my eyes. This graphic novel is beautiful and would make a wonderful gift for anyone and everyone.
4174	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Yayoi Kusama has gone through some shit. Her mother physically and mentally abused her as a child and her father was a womanizer who frequently left the household for weeks at a time so he could meet up with other women. As a result, Yayoi began to develop mental health issues such as OCD and schizophrenia. She also developed a strong fear of sex, repulsed from watching her father lay with other women. Painting and drawing was the only way she could escape from her chaotic home which led her to creating artworks like this chair covered with phalluses  https://www.google.com/search?q=yayoi...  As well as “infinity rooms” like these  https://www.google.com/search?q=yayoi...  Now she’s one of the most iconic contemporary artists in the world who uses her art to battle sexism and racism. She sees our world in ways that wouldn’t have been possible if it weren’t for her hallucinations. She turned her greatest weakness into her greatest strength.  “No pain could ever discourage me. It’s how I was born and how I have lived; it’s how I’ll continue to live”  “Sex disgusts me. The Phallus literally horrifies me. This is how I try to overcome my phobias. It’s a form of self-medication. I’d call it psychosomatic art”  “A toast! To art. For keeping us alive. And without which I couldn’t stand the world around me”  “How do you feel about death?” “It doesn’t scare me. Not even a bit…it’s like walking into another room”
4175	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"""Kusama"", by Elisa Macellari, is a graphic novel exploring the life and art of contemporary Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama. Originally published in Italian, it was translated into English by Edward Fortes.  Prior to reading this graphic novel I was not familiar with Kusama's art or life, so this was a very interesting experience. Kusama was born in the late 20's in a small town in Japan. Throughout her childhood and her young adulthood, her family opposed her painting and her love of art. In addition, it appears that they were also a dysfunctional family, with marital issues. Naturally this affected her mentally, and throughout her life her love-hate relationship with her parents affected not only her art, but also her approach to human relationships.  Apart from the tumultuous life, Kusama also dealt with the expectations that the patriarchal Japanese society at the time was setting for her. To be able to pursuit her love of art, she moved to New York City, where she became a prolific artist and got involved in political art movements against war.  The illustrations in the graphic novel depict her style very well. After finishing the graphic novel I felt compelled to research this artist more, and I was very happy to learn that she is still alive, in her 90s. A lot of artists are recognized after their death, so it is refreshing to see that Japan recognized her talent while she is still alive.  All in all, I enjoyed the experience of reading this graphic novel. I feel it could have gone a little more in depth in exploring Kusama's inspiration and her political principles. It did make me interested in researching more about her, though, so I need to give credit where credit is due. If you are a person interested in art, and the life of artists, I definitely recommend this one. It's a very quick read and a good introduction to Kusama's art and life. Thank you to NetGalley and Laurence King Publishing Ltd for the opportunity to read a copy of this graphic novel in exchange for my honest review."
4179	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I enjoyed learning a little more about Kusama, who I only knew about peripherally with relation to NY Happenings of the 1960s. The color-scheme and minimal text add to the enigma of Kusama and made me want to learn even more. I have some books on request. Quick read. Fascinating lady.
4180	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Drawings were tight and empathy for YK’s psychic illnesses was strong but I felt somehow like something was missing? Idk why. Good book though and I’d definitely recommend it.
4181	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Amazingly done - a beautiful, dark graphic novel.
4184	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautifully illustrated and moving
4185	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	These books are like shooting fish in a barrel for me. What's not to love about a beautiful graphic biography of a japanese artist who used art to survive psychotic episodes?  Only downside is how soon these books are over. I read the whole thing during lunch.
4186	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Loved it, only wished it was longer and contained more informations about Yayoi Kusama’s life.. (Definitely will consider reading her biography) But still this book is an artwork and I totally enjoyed it! As it was my first graphic novel I’m definitely going for more…
4188	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	My only familiarity with this artist's work was from two picture book biographies that I recently read. The books for small children refer to Kusama's avant-garde art in age-appropriate ways, emphasizing the infinity dots and the pumpkins instead of phallic symbols and nude bodies, so I was not prepared for the level of sexual imagery and detail that would appear in this adult graphic novel biography.  I might not have read it if I had known, but aside from that, I greatly enjoyed this book. It is well-designed and informative, and I enjoyed learning more about Kusama's background, frustrated relationship with her parents, and mental health issues, which the books for younger readers glossed over. This book is beautifully designed, with vibrant art that evokes her style while still remaining unique, and even though I visually skimmed past the nudity, I pored over other pages, noticing all the vivid details and the interplay between different colors. This is a beautiful, artistic book, and the presentation suits the subject matter.  I would highly recommend this to fans of Kusama's art, and it is also a great introduction to her life and work for people who are nor familiar with her. However, people who share my preference for avoiding nude art should know that this book includes a lot of it. Also, another significant trigger warning is that  in an early scene from the artist's childhood, she sees her father in bed with another woman and is traumatized by this. The implication is that her later phobias about sexuality and preoccupation with it in her art stemmed from this horrifying experience. The scene that she beholds is illustrated vaguely, with no sex organs visible, but is still drawn to be disturbing.  This is an interesting, informative book, and I am glad that I read it, but it definitely falls outside of my usual content preferences. I was able to visually skim past parts, and didn't feel particularly uncomfortable, but I know that I would have had a very different experience with this several years ago, and would give a heads up to parents and teenagers that even though this book is on an accessible reading level for middle grade and up, it involves content that not all families or individuals will be comfortable with.  I received a temporary digital copy through NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
4189	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Every moment I spent reading through this graphic novel memoir of artist Yayoi Kusama felt like a dream. The color palette is limited, and yet the illustrations seemed to... grow? through the story as Kusama's world expanded. I practically felt myself falling into them, which is appropriate I think considering the scope of her actual work. The topic of mental health was addressed respectfully, showing only what Kusama herself was experiencing and feeling. My one and only frustration with reading this was that it was a digital copy and that I WANTED the book in my hands. The images are so pigmented that I could practically smell the ink coming off of the screen, and I think a physical copy, the feel of the paper, would only add to the whole reading experience here. I see me buying myself a copy on release, and likely buying a copy for a few other choice friends!  I was provided a digital copy of the book via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
4191	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This graphic novel felt like the literary equivalent of fan art. It is essentially a love letter to the artist Yayoi Kusama who reached the height of her success at a time when the industry was dominated by men. As a Japanese woman, Kusama struggled with the values instilled in her by her traditional and conservative parents and you can see how the art and installations she created in the 1960s were in direct response to that. The book also explores the dissociative episodes that Kusama endures throughout her life and how these episodes affected her work which was interesting to read about.  I really enjoyed the art style and colour palette used in this work, I found it hypnotic, almost calming and it caused me to seek out Kusama's work to better understand the author's influences. I was happy to discover that this book was translated from the Italian which was very welcome especially during Women in Translation month.  Unfortunately, I couldn't give this book a full 5 stars because its content felt a little thin. We skim over long periods of Kusama's life and I feel I learned as much about her life as I would have done by reading her Wikipedia page. This is likely because, while the author is a fan, they don't seem to have access to Kusama/her friends and family so there are no real insights into Kusama as a woman at least not as far as I could tell. It made me interested to learn more about Kusama though and was an excellent start to my learning about a woman who seems to have been hugely important for modern art.
4192	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thank you to NetGalley and Lawrence King Publishing for an eArc in exchange for an honest review.  This is a gorgeously illustrated graphic novel of Yayoi Kusama’s life, dealing with many difficult topics, including mental illness,  I was a bit disappointed at how the book ended, and that it didn’t go into the current craze about Kusama and the infinity mirror exhibits she has around the world but otherwise, definitely learned a lot about this artist.
4193	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I’ve really been loving these artist bio graphic novels from Laurence King Publishing, and the Yayoi Kusama edition is no exception.  This illustrated bio of Kusama’s life and work is simply lovely, perfect for both ardent Kusama fans and the Kusama-curious.  Her story is charmingly rendered in the text and the art is terrific, evocative of Kusama’s aesthetic while not simply mimicking her work.  *I received an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review.*
4194	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Wow I didn't know that artist at all. I have to say that her work with the holes and stuff is quite unsettling 😂 but her performances I found very interesting. I'm grateful that I had a chance to hear about her. The graphic novel itself is a fast and well constructed read. I could relate to her mental health issues as well.  Thanks to Laurence King Publishing and NetGalley for this ARC. :)
4195	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Firstly thank you to Net Gallery for sending me an early copy to review.  Kusama is a graphic novel about the Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama. The novel takes us on a journey through her life . It begins in Japan in 1939, she is told by her mother a woman who paints has no future. This only makes Yayoi more determined to show her art to the world which brings her to New York.  The illustrations truly capture what was in Yayoi's head. From a young age she experienced hallucinations and dots that became visible to others (literally on others too) through her work .  The graphic novel takes us through several decades of art, beauty and war.
4196	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"What a fantastic graphic novel! The art was absolutely gorgeous, and Macellari does a great job telling Kusama's story.  My one criticism is that it seems to glorify her mental illness a bit--like ""she was such a genius! Having a severe mental illness helped her create incredible art!"" and I don't love that vibe."
4197	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	* I would like to thank Netgalley and the publisher for the opportunity to review this book. *  A graphic novel about the life of a contemporary artist seems a very fitting way to tell that story. I have reviewed another in this series, about Jackson Pollock, and found it interesting and informative. Yayoi Kusama is an artist that I am minimally acquainted with compared to Pollock, and this story was an excellent introduction to her life and work.  Macellari has an obvious enthusiasm for her subject and for Kusama's work, and gives us an unblinking account of the artist, including the mental health issues that drive Kusama's creative impulses, something which the artist has always been open about. After reading this I researched Kusama a little, and found that she is still producing art well into her nineties, a staggeringly long career for somebody who has managed to stay at the cutting edge of the art world for nearly 50 years. I thought this was a very worthwhile read and an enlightening introduction to an artist I was not aware of before.
4198	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"a beautifully rendered glimpse into the life and work of queen-of-the-polka-dot yayoi kusama.  the first time I remember seeing kusama's work was in my undergraduate college's art museum: a baby carriage covered in silver stuffed phallic ""protrusions."" the second was on naoshima, japan's ""art island"": a giant yellow japanese pumpkin covered in black polka dots of varying size. the third, and most spectacular of all, was at the hirshhorn museum in washington d.c.: the famous ""infinity mirrors"" exhibit. i left the exhibit convinced that yayoi kusama was a complete and utter genius.  the artwork of ""kusama"" is gorgeous: captivating line work brought to life with a minimal yet vivid color palette. elisa macellari does a great job at making the most of the inherent visual-medium-ness of graphic works by evoking kusama's style throughout the narrative, giving readers both previously familiar and unfamiliar with kusama's work a connection to it.  the narrative itself is clear, informative, and emotional. my only complaint is that ""kusama"" is far too short; with a good 80% of the narrative focusing on kusama's early life and work, it felt like the book should be at least twice as long!  ultimately, ""kusama"" is well-worth checking out. while it provides more substance to those unfamiliar with yayoi kusama and her work, there is still enough of interest to those who already enjoy her work and/or are familiar with her background. i look forward to seeing more of elisa macellari's work in the future.  thank you to netgalley and laurence king publishing for an e-arc in exchange for an honest review."
4199	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	It’s no secret that the art and literature world are often dominated by male artists and writers. Everyone has heard of a Mark Twain or a Leo Tolstoy but few of Anna Akhmatova. Everyone must have heard of Picasso and Andy Warhol but few of Yayoi Kusama, who also created her art in the same decade as Warhol.  A striking graphic novel, Kusama, by Elisa Macellari and translated from Italian to English by Edward Fortes, pays a fitting tribute to this troubled and spectacular artist. Yayoi Kusama was born in Japan and took a momentous decision of moving to America to take her career as an artist forward. It was an unthinkable decision for her parents, a decision which led to a breakdown of her ties with them. For painting then, and even now, is considered nothing more than a hobby. The disapproval for a girl indulging in painting is even greater.  Check out the full review on my blog: https://bookreviewsgalore.wordpress.c...
4200	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I don’t think any artist has influenced me as much as Kusama has. In my favorite museum in Pittsburgh there is a permanent Kusama installation, and in high school I used to spend hours laying on the floor in the exhibit to be immersed in the art. Luckily, no one at the Mattress Factory (or the Any Warhol museum, for that matter) will side eye you or tell you to get up. It was the first time I felt that art could be healing, fun, and profound all at the same time.  Since then, my travels have serendipitously brought me to various exhibitions (mostly recently in London last month) and I’m glad to have accidentally kept up with her work. I admit sadly that I never researched Kusama as a person before. Yet, sitting on a library shelf the other day, this book presented itself to me. I have a feeling that these polka dots will keep finding their way to me for a while yet. ☺️
4201	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Many thanks to Laurence King Publishing Ltd and NetGalley for providing an advance reader's copy in exchange for an honest review!  I had no idea about Yayoi Kusama before reading this book. NetGalley has introduced me to such an amazing artist.  I loved the artwork in this book a lot. It is very fascinating and the text could have been a bit developed. The plot follows the life of the artist and how she attained fame after going through several personal struggles. I liked the colour scheme in this book a lot and it resonated with the artist.  Overall, it's a brief art biography of Kusama with excellent artwork which you can read in a very short span of time. This book definitely helped to know more about her.
4202	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This was an incredible graphic novel.  I was not aware of the story of Yayoi Kusama and I just happen to fall upon the graphic novel, with zero correlation to her rise in fame and recent collaborations, such as with LVMH.  I could relate to her story, and how she treated things, even though different narratives, I felt her path of curiosity, fears, ambition and fulfilling her needs, dreams and aspirations, through a constant balance between struggle and success, but through which came a lot of growth, and happiness.  I also adore the art style of Elisa Marcelli.  I would 10/10 recommend for art lovers.
4203	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I first encountered Kusama’s work during my trip to Naoshima - an island in Japan that has been turned into an open-art museum. Since then I’ve seen a few of her works in various other Japanese museums and was always surprised at the physical response Kusama’s art would elicit in me. I never knew much about Kusama herself, however, and this graphic novel changes that.  It is a biography of sort - we get to learn about her childhood, her mental health struggles and her American success. To be honest, I found the language of the translation stilted (it was originally written in Italian) - we are given dry facts and platitudes. Where this work shines, though, is the art. I especially enjoyed how the color palette and scope (boldness?!) of the depiction have changed throughout the graphic novel to accompany the changes in Kusama - the artist. A fun read.
4204	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A gorgeous book with gorgeous art — the art is in line with Kusama’s, and gives a good, although brief, overview of her life and career. That’s why I’m docking one star, though: it’s quite brief and glazed over her life and career and I just wish there were just a bit more detail.  If you are unfamiliar with Kusama (maybe all you know about her are those pumpkins you’ve seen around or the Infinity Rooms), this is a wonderful and vivid introduction to her.
4205	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	a good companion to Living with Less which, was heavily focused on male artists but did fleetingly bring up Kusama. This felt like a sweet love letter to Kusama, her artwork and a nod to the challenges of her life and experience as an outlier. Graphically nice, the art is more homage than knock off which is good for both artists.
4207	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	yayoi kusama is so amazing!! really want to buy *her* book..i’m never sure if we’re supposed to separate artists’ lives from their art or if we should separate ourselves because maybe it’s the collective experience that they’re abstracting that matters? i never feel that it’s my place to decide that. 
4209	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This was such an interesting graphic novel biography on Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama! I knew vaguely of her but this helped to showcase her story and very unique art. I loved the discussions of mental health + art expression, being a female in a male dominant world and the artist’s use of body, sex, art and performance art to be political and original! 
4210	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A very engaging graphic novel that perfectly captures Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama. Not just her life and childhood but also her work, art inspiration, and ongoing struggles with mental illness. I enjoyed how the book provides rich insight into the New York art scene on top of highlighting gender roles and stereotypes at the time, sexuality and loneliness. The artwork is incredible (and fitting, considering its subject).  I'm definitely interested to learn more about Kusama after reading this.
4211	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	What a badass artist and activist she was! I had no idea what to expect and I loved this book so much. You don’t need to know much about art to appreciate it, but there are some fun cameos! She was ahead of her time for sure. Excellent read with beautiful illustrations. 
4212	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"I didn't know anything about Kusama, so this was interesting. However the story felt lacking, I do wonder if it was intentional to represent her. I was excited to see Georgia O'Keeffe's influence on her life  Also the first ""chapter"" of my copy was in German, so that was a printing problem"
4214	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I'd never heard of this Kusama's art and decided to check out this book. Her art isn't my style but I think this memoir was very interesting. Childhood trauma really can dictate how your life turns out.
4215	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	HOW did i not know of the artist Kusama??!! woooah, mind blooooooown! i delighted in this showcase of art presenting art presenting the artistic genius of an incredibly unique human.  i want MORE of this graphic artists intreptation as well as MORE about Kusama- prepping now to go down a rabbit hole!
4216	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A good intro to Yuyoi Kusama and her work. Made me curious and I’ll learn more in the future. Kusama is a fascinating artist and person.
4218	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A beautiful and interesting book which describes Kusama's life and art process. The graphic novel format supports the discussion of artworks particularly well.
4220	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	10/10 doesn’t do it justice. I know a lot about her but I loved the way this was written and the graphics are beautiful. Very sad past. Maybe the best graphic novel so far
4221	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I don’t love graphic novels but I’m very glad I read this to learn about the artist. 
4222	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautifully illustrated novel, but it didn’t go quite as deep as I had hoped it would. At best this is a surface glance of an extraordinary artist.
4223	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	My daughter learned about Kusama, Yayoi in school, so I thought it would be fun to read more about her. This is an adult book. It covers bad mental health, abusive parenting, and quite a bit of naked people. Love the artist. Wasn’t quite prepared for the amount of sex in the book. 
4224	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Obsessed with the illustrations in this book 😍😍
4225	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A beautiful graphic novel for the sensation that was (and still is) Yayoi Kusama 🎃
4226	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This is my first review for #NetGalley! I signed up recently because why not. I like books, and I like my hobby of reviewing books, and I was lucky enough to have been given the opportunity to have an early look at Elisa Macellari's beautiful graphic novel about Yayoi Kusama, KUSAMA: THE GRAPHIC NOVEL. Thank you so much to the publisher, Lawrence King Publishing. Also, I believe it was translated from the original Italian, which makes it great for #WITMonth!  Kusama is one of my favorite artists, not only because her immersive works are gorgeous and terrifying and enchanting and wonderful, but because she has overcome EVERYTHING to become what she is. She was raised in post-war Japan by oppressive parents who were anything but supportive of her ambition to become an artist, has suffered from mental illness for her entire life, and yet! She, a young, broke, Japanese woman left home to live alone in New York to make art and...she made it. Granted, she still struggles with her mental health, but she is making art because it is the only way she knows how to live. I love her work and I admire and am inspired by her tenacity. I have stood in long lines to see her exhibits and journeyed out to the Rockaways in 2018 to experience Rockaway! 2018: A Narcissus Garden, which was nothing short of incredible. I'm very much looking forward to her installation at the New York Botantical Garden, which was postponed until 2021 due to COVID.  This biographical graphic novel is beautiful, if a bit restrained. It tracks her story and style from the more traditional Japanese, through her provocative naked-people art of the 1960's, and up through the pumpkins and infinity rooms of today, all the while including the dots, always the dots. I'm docking a star because it really does skim a bit, particularly near the end - she is still rocking it and making amazing installations in her 90's! That said, it is a lovely introduction to Yayoi Kusama's life and work, recommended for both her many admirers and folks who maybe aren't as familiar with her contemporary art.  Format: ARC e-book, via Netgalley Read for: 2020 Reading Women Challenge Prompt 15 - A biography (This is my last book for this challenge! Hooray! Roundup post coming soon via Instagram.)
4227	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Graphic novel biography of Yayoi Kusama. It's too close to hagiography. It drew most of its content from the artist's autobiography and artist-authorized biographic works. Some of the scenes in the comic are of events that have been disproven for years. I wanted more intellectual heft than a children's book. I liked the art work. I still like Kusama. And i had no idea how many connections she had in the New York art scene.
4229	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	a super beautiful and quiet telling of Kusama’s life
4230	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	The page spreads and artwork were absolutely stunning and the novel was told so poetically. I did find it very short, and therefore lacked any real depth or detail, but it is a gorgeous little graphic novel. 
4232	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama: A Graphic Biography by Elisa Macellari is a stunning work showing the arc(s) of Kusama's career.  In my case, I am familiar with her work and would highly recommend trying to take in one of her exhibitions or permanent Infinity Rooms. I have attended two exhibitions (went back a few days later for one of them, so have experienced her infinity room three times) and would attend another if the opportunity arises. As someone familiar with her work and, to a lesser degree, her life, this book was a fun overview. What it offers someone like myself is a big picture of her life and career, the arc or arcs of her career. I didn't need to read details of every mental break down, though her autobiography offers plenty of her life details should anyone be interested. The artwork here shows as often as it tells the reader how Kusama is feeling, a tear shed, a graphic timeline of her aging.  For those unfamiliar with Kusama this is a great introduction to both her work and her life. You will get a feel for what she was doing and why, as well as just enough personal life story to understand to some extent what drives her. This is not a detailed biography but this is so much more than, as one person said, a Wikipedia entry. Well, I guess if you're lacking in the emotional aspect and just want facts then the facts might be there, but without the graphic representations of fear, disgust, drive, ambition, and the many elements that are lacking in any such entry. But if you just want facts and don't care about the emotional aspect, then maybe this is, for you, no better than a Wikipedia entry. But I do feel sorry for you if that is the case, you are incapable of feeling empathy from the expressive artwork of this graphic biography.  I highly recommend this to both old and (soon to be) new admirers of Kusama's work. It strikes a nice middle between a detailed biography and a cold Wikipedia-type entry. Sometimes, even for those who know her life and work, a big picture view helps to put everything back into perspective.  Reviewed from a copy made available by the publisher via NetGalley.
4233	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	3.8 Kusama by Elisa Macellari is a biographical graphic novel based around the life of the Japanese contemporary artist, Yayoi Kusama, who's art rose to prominence in New York in the 1960's. I feel for quick information on the artist, her work and the times she lived it this was a very good book. It gives interest to want to learn more and to look her up and see what the art looked like. However, maybe it is because I am not a huge modern art fan the art did not impress me much. I felt the story it told was very sad. A girl in a conservative traditional home where the husband cheats and the mother makes her little daughter go see it and report back just to berate her for it. It is no wonder in the time of the 60's that she would grab onto the free love movement and how america was embracing that idea and rebealing against authority because it was a reflection of what she had felt and seen as a child. I felt that part was shown in the work and also an anger towards men and how they treat women. Also sad how she was dealing with a mental issue that seemed to be overlooked by others and not treated correctly. I feel that alot of the story was not there but what can you say in that little bit of time. Also the author is a big fan so it is safe to say that they would put in the book what impressed on them the most. I liked the book but did not love it. I am grateful I was able to read it however since it is another voice in art and history and introduced me to her to look into more. thank you Elisa Macellari and netgalley for introducing me to her and allowing me to read/review this book.
4234	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I wanted to read a graphic novel and this was a Net Galley choice. I had never heard of Kusama-but apparently she is highly revered in the art world. The graphics were beautifully drawn and the story was so well illustrated. Her story is very sad though-one of sterile relationships or failed relationships. When I finished reading this I just felt sorry for her-her life seemed very lonely, despite her fame.
4235	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	An utterly gorgeous biography of Yayoi Kusama. From her disruptive childhood surrounded by flowers and her parents arguing, through her years in New York, her struggles with her mental health and the recent resurgence in her popularity. Every page is beautiful, with the kind of detail that I could still see when I closed my eyes, long after the book was finished.
4236	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama is a graphic biography of the artist Yayoi Kusama by Elisa Macellari.  From rural Japan to international icon - Yayoi Kusama has spent her remarkable life immersed in her art. This graphic novel follows her incredible journey — from her bold departure from Japan as a young artist, to her buzzing around the New York art scene in the 1960s, to her eventual return home and rise to twenty-first-century super-fame. We even get a glimpse into her inner demons and how they drove her to create art.  “Art is dominated by men. White American men. What am I?”  The book itself is a work of art. The color palette mimics so much of Kusama’s art and is just so beautiful. Scroll to see the art exhibit that expired the cover!  I honestly had never heard of Yayoi Kusama before reading this book, and I was definitely missing out. Her art is incredible, she sounds like a fascinating lady, and I really hope to see an exhibit in person one day. 
4237	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A while back I read & reviewed women in art by Rachel Ignotofsky; a graphic novel that covers a range of female artists from around the world. One artist was Yayoi Kusama, a Japanese contemporary artist famous for sculptures & installations!  I love the cover & art style of this. The novel touches on the topic of her mental health & how art helps her cope. She is diagnosed with Depersonalization; a detachment within the self, with one's mind/body. You repeatedly have the feeling that you're observing yourself from outside your body/sense that things around you aren't real. This can happen due to genetics, environment/severe trauma. I hadn’t heard of this condition before, so it was interesting to learn about it. I must say, I can’t imagine the strength it took for her to destroy her own art so her mother wouldn’t 😞 Also cool to learn about psychosomatic art. She has a phobia of sex; extreme prejudice that sex is dirty & shameful. She faces her fear so she can overcome it, as seen in her art: phallic looking sculptures. She was so open-minded & expressive in a time when things like this were shunned, especially for ethnic women. A very impressive person & artist. I’m very glad I read this book
4238	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Such a gorgeous, beautiful and heartbreaking graphic novel on the extraordinary life of the renowned and talented Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama.  Kusama is one of my favorite living artists of all time, and this book is an amazingly loving tribute to Kusama’s genius, tenacity, and unwavering determination in the face of serious mental illnesses to create deeply meaningful art that reflects the complexity of love, life, and death for each and every one of us. I found the gorgeously colorful and intricate illustrations simply breathtaking; the accompanying texts and words with the images were also insightful and thought-provoking. I found the book so tender, moving, and touching that I even cried near the end of the book (esp. in the last few pages!) 😭. It’s difficult to articulate exactly why I was moved to tears by this book, but I have absolutely no regrets and no shame about being consumed and overwhelmed by the beauty of art. I will certainly be re-reading this again and again in the future. Highly recommend!
4239	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thanks to netgalley and the publisher for an ARC of this book  I'd never heard of Yayoi Kusama before reading this, but she seems like a fascinating artist, and it's a shame more people don't know about her. As far as I know, this seemed to be a good overview of how she got started and created some of her most famous art, and the art in this book worked well with the style.
4240	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	My thanks to Laurence King Publishing for a temporary digital review copy via NetGalley of ‘Kusama: the Graphic Novel’ by Elisa Macellari. It was translated from the Italian by Edward Fortes. This is part of the publisher’s Graphic Lives series.  This graphic novel chronicles the incredible life of Yayoi Kusama, from her early life in rural Japan, where her desire to become an artist was met with great resistance from her family, then her departure from Japan to the USA in 1958 where she became part of the vibrant New York art scene of the 1960s.  It doesn’t shy away from depicting the more controversial aspects of her work, such as the public ‘happenings’ that shocked people. In addition, there is her lifelong struggle with mental illness. This eventually led to her return to Japan in 1973, where since 1977 she has voluntarily lived in a psychiatric hospital. After almost two decades of relative obscurity, even though she never stopped creating, she emerged once more in the 1990s and 21st Century to worldwide super-fame. It is quite an inspiring journey.  I felt that Elisa Macellari did an excellent job of depicting Kusama’s life and art as well as capturing the essence of her fragile psyche. She uses a limited palette to great effect; focusing upon shades of red and green, black, and white with the occasional purple. Some of the images were surreal and a little disturbing, highlighting the fractures within. Others were very cute.  Macellari drew on multiple sources to create this graphic novel that she lists at the end of the book. Chief among them was ‘Infinity Net’, Kusama’s autobiography, that I now hope to read.  I recall hearing of Kusama’s work during my study of art history in the module on the emergence of performance art in the 1960s. The body art and huge polka dots made a lasting impression even if we didn’t study her in detail.  I enjoyed the playful cameos that Elisa Macellari included of other artists: Andy Warhol, Salvador Dali and Georgia O’Keefe. I was surprised that Kusama’s fellow innovative performance artist, Yoko Ono, who came to prominence in the same period wasn’t mentioned though apparently they were not on friendly terms. Art gossip!  Overall, an excellent introduction to the life and work of this important modern artist. After reading it I went in search of more details of Kusama’s work, which for me demonstrates that Elisa Macellari has been successful in her intention to bring Kusama to a wider audience.  Highly recommended for art lovers.   
4241	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama: The Graphic Novel is a biographical graphic novel written and illustrated by Elisa Macellari and translated by Edward Fortes. Macellari's splendid biography of Yayoi Kusama brings the artist's neurotic obsessions to life.  Yayoi Kusama is a Japanese contemporary artist who works primarily in sculpture and installation, but is also active in painting, performance, film, fashion, poetry, fiction, and other arts. Her work is based in conceptual art and shows some attributes of feminism, minimalism, surrealism, Art Brut, pop art, and abstract expressionism, and is infused with autobiographical, psychological, and sexual content. She has been acknowledged as one of the most important living artists to come out of Japan.  Growing up in a small Japanese town, Kusama is plagued by unsupportive parents, severe anxiety, and hallucinations – art is her only and constant solace. She discovers Georgia O'Keefe's paintings and their magical power and corresponds with the artist, who encourages her to come to New York.  Kusama does so in 1957 and eventually connects with N.Y.C.'s Warhol-led avant-garde. Headlines about the naked performance pieces she directs find their way back to Japan, and after her fraught psychological state intensifies, she checks into a mental hospital and is nearly forgotten by the fickle art world. Other events in Kusama's life, including her chaste but emotionally intimate affair with artist Joseph Cornell and her eventual return to international prominence, are documented.  Kusama: The Graphic Novel is written and constructed rather well. Macellari's narrative is filled with imagery and over cramming in biographical details, employing a color palette of vivid red, turquoise, coral, and lilac, and a geometric array that includes circles, squares, and the neat curves of traditional Japanese paintings. Macellari's graphic novel interprets and mirrors Kusama's art in a way that honors it but doesn't imitate it.  All in all, Kusama: The Graphic Novel is a satisfying glimpse into Kusama's world, which is a wonderful place both tidy and trippy.
4243	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Yayoi Kusama is an artist that I wasn’t aware that I knew, I’d seen pictures of some of her work in the tome-like books that were in the rooms I took GCSE Art & Design, I remember seeing pictures of her mirrored balls, and yet I’d never retained her name. It was only through reading Elisa Macellari’s lovingly put together biography on the Japanese artist that I was able to put a name to the images I’d seen in my adolescence. More than that, it wonderfully combines the artwork with the person in a way that brings Kusama’s whole life together as one.  Kusama’s story isn’t a simple one. Her mother disapproved of her artistic nature, her father was an adulterer and her home life was such that she was encouraged to move away, in fact, to leave the country and pursue her dream of being an artist. What developed when she landed in America is her growth as a key part of the hippy movement of the 60s and her working amongst such figures as Dali and Warhol and her relationships she held with Georgia O’Keefe. Macellari goes to some effort to show both the development of Kusama’s art and the maturation of her political idea’s and how the two would meld into the large variety of disciplines that she worked in, from painting through to performance art, all the while trying to push the boundaries of what is acceptable.  However, despite her successes, her mother never accepted her work and felt it brought shame upon the family.  There’s a personal element to the book though, Macellari talks openly in the introduction of Kusama’s influence on her and that’s apparent in the visuals of the book which are peppered with polka dots and infinity nets.  However, this isn’t a thorough biography of Kusama, more an illustrated annotation of her journey from Japan, to New York and back to Japan, with key moments in her career paving the way, it serves as an introduction into her life and work and it does that with a fondness and warmth that’s intoxicating.
4244	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This was on my radar for a while, but then my wife and I went to see the Kusama exhibit at the Hirshhorn Museum as part of our anniversary celebration and she bought this for me in the gift shop.  And then I devoured it!  Macellari's color palette and the way she integrates Kusama's art/aesthetic into the book are just delightful (scrumptious if you'd like to continue with the eating metaphor). She tells a pretty straightforward biography about Kusama quite similar to both the timeline at the actual exhibit and the 2018 documentary (Kusama: Infinity), but doing so in illustration works incredibly well since Kusama's life/work is so given to pattern and getting lost in visual fields/nets/infinities.  I went from knowing little about Kusama as an artist or person (other than that she is a wildly popular person with an affinity for polka dots) to better understanding why she is so celebrated (channeling her trauma/mental health issues into prodigious artistic output; having the ambition and will to overcome sexist/racist and social limitations; and making several artistic innovations throughout her long career).  Those looking for an uncritical, celebratory take in wonderful visual format would do well by this book. (It would seem almost all media aside from one Vice article are uncritical of her these days both aesthetically and culturally... Actually, no one seems to criticize her work negatively but one friend did point out some of her racist comments and approaches in both the past and present.)  My departing gifts to you: A two-page spread from this book and a Kusama pumpkin sculpture...   
4245	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Yayoi Kusama is a cultural icon who survived the hectic artistic experience of New York in the ’60s and ’70s and has continued to impress us with her art today.  Known for her iconic sculptures, many of them covered entirely by dots, she has always been portrayed as a woman who struggled with her mental health and fears trough art. Most famously, she said she was terrified with the male organ and sculpted it in several forms, protruding from different spaces, even suitcases!  Since her work encompasses so many decades, I was happy to stumble upon Macellari’s biography. I love graphic biography novels; they cover so much terrain. And her choice of incorporating Kusama’s own work into her rendition is a genius move.  From her struggles with her parents in rural Japan, to her amazing correspondence with Georgia O’Keeffe, to her relentless approach to work, to her well-deserved fame, everything is portrayed beautifully.  Many pages are devoted to her performance art, which involved a lot of sex scenes, in many manifestations: men-men, trios, etc. She said she had a phobia for it and used these challenging acts of nudity and art to overcome said fears. She returned to Japan after many years, and even though America forgot her, she continues to do art even inside a psychiatric hospital.  You can’t encompass enough in a short biography novel, but what it is shown is very relevant and important. Yayoi struggles with her dotted visions and synergistic experiences, her fears and bad memories from her childhood, but she goes on. Her entire life, her resilience, that’s what’s celebrated here. I hope we have even more books about her.  Try taking in one of her exhibitions or infinity rooms. I have gone to three of her exhibitions and wouldn’t hesitate going to a fourth.
4246	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"This book is about the Japanese female artist Yayoi Kusama. Ms. Kusama is a very interesting person who is still alive and producing art today at the age of 91. She lives and works in Tokyo.  I became familiar with Ms. Kusama after seeing one of her infinity mirror rooms in Miami in January 2020. I waited in line for about an hour to spend 1 minute alone in the infinity mirror room to see the ""All The Eternal Love I Have For The Pumpkins (2016)"" exhibit. Was it worth it? Absolutely. I can not fully describe to you in words the experience of it all; but it was awesome. There was something almost spiritual about it... After seeing this exhibit, I did some research about the artist and learned about her unusual background. (She lives in a psychiatric hospital.) I have also seen the documentary about her which is available on Netflix called ""Kusama Infinity"" which is excellent, and I would highly recommend watching.  I have read another Goodreads review which rated the book 3.5 text/book and 5/5 for the drawings. And I would completely agree with that rating/assessment. The book is short, you can read it in an hour and it gives a good overview of the artist and her work. But it is sparse on text and if you know about the artist already, this book doesn't really add much new information. However, it is a very good primer on the life of the artist for those people that are new to her work and provides an excellent summary. But to me it was really the drawings that stood out in this book. They are wonderful and very well done and I think captured the essence of her work."
4247	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	OH MY! This is by far the most stunning graphic novel I’ve ever read. The author/illustrator Elisa Macellari gives us such excellent, striking illustrations of the life and works of Yayoi Kusama, one of the world’s most prominent artists from Japan.  To be honest, I got to know Kusama as her Infinity Mirror Rooms began to draw Thai mainstream social media users’ attention a few years ago. I remembered that Kusama rose to fame overnight and became well-known among Thais ever since. I also remember that a mall in Bangkok, CentralWorld, managed to display Kusama’s inflatable pumpkins balloon inside the mall. That display definitely proved Kusama’s popularity here in my country without a shadow of a doubt.  So, this book is mind-blowing. I knew that Kusama was constantly fighting with her mental health issues, but it never came to my attention how the teenage Kusama initiated such controversial, groundbreaking arts and performances like the Grand Orgy and Homosexual Wedding. I’m even more jaw dropped because her happenings in New York were carried before 1994 when I was just born. The woman is so so ahead of her time.  My reading journey is filled with the utmost joy because the illustrations by Elisa Macellari are soooooo beautiful. I LOVE how unique, neat, yet fun they all are. It’s such an awesome graphic novel I’m so glad I got hold of one. Plus, found out later the author/illustrator has Thai roots, I’m like awwww this is so amazing!  Either you’re a fan of Yayoi Kusama or a graphic novel enthusiast, this should deffo be on your book shrine.
4249	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Elisa Macellari's second graphic novel is a biography of kinds of the famed Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama. Instead of trying to show the entirety of the artist's life, Macellari has chosen instead to focus only on a few of the most important snapshots of her life - from her early years as a kind of strange child who can hear flowers to her wild period in the New York's avant-garde to finally her retirement at a psychiatric institution.  The majority of the book deals with Kusama's inner world and as such, tries to portray the world as seen by the unique Japanese artists. We feel that we can see the world of dots as seen by Kusama, also the shapes that constitute her life, even maybe feel to a slight degree her sense of alienation and disassociation from the world. Even maybe her extreme dislike of sex and her artistic preoccupation with it. In this, and Macellari's brilliant drawing lies one of the few strengths of the book.  Yet, as a piece of writing Kusama has a few weaknesses, the biggest among which is the fact that it seems to be aimed at people who are familiar with Yayoi Kusama's life and work. Also, though the book seems to focus on her mental illness(es), it does not really delve very deep into them, neither it tries to see what the reasons behind them might be. This results in a beautiful, yet somewhat mediocre novel.
4250	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I've been wanting to get a hold of this book since Hyperallergic wrote about it last year. It's a visually stunning book for sure. The spirit of Kusama's work is represented visually throughout the book which lends to a good deal of visual candy. The use of pattern, repetition of dots and a red and robin egg blue color scheme carry the story forward in more interesting ways than the words. I wish the visual feast continued for double the number of pages of this small volume. While the biography hits the high notes of Kusama's career in the 1960s in NYC, her mental health break and then her return to the art world's eyes, there was such little context along the way in each of these sections of the book. I'm grateful that this book taught me some things about the artist I didn't know, but I also worry it reduced her complex ideas into palatable bite size pieces that don't fully allow for a new reader to see the inherent feminism in her work. Clearer is the way that the creative process helps Kusama navigate her mental health, but even that seems vague and confusing (maybe it always is) to the reader. I wish there was more of a cohesive narrative arc of the book that reflected just how celebrated she and her work is today. 
4251	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	In the 1940s and 1950s, mental health issues were often ignored. A Japanese artist named Kusama heard voices, had panic attacks, and suffered from hallucinations. Why? It is a chicken and an egg question. Did Kusama’s mental health issues drive her mother to be strict? Or did her mother’s harsh discipline cause Kusama’s mental health issues?  Regardless, Kusama’s tale is an inspiring tale of resilience. She actually used her obsessive compulsive disorder to create incredible detailed paintings using dots. Sort of large, very large, scale pointillism, at least at first. She was one of the first female Japanese artists on the modern pop-art scene. She was a contemporary of Andy Warhol. Remarkable, she is still alive living in Japan.  As Kusama finds her style, the artwork in book begins to move toward it too. There are some rather explicit Happenings including LGBT scenes in the second half making this book inappropriate for children. Otherwise, it is an interesting look into someone’s productive life even while dealing with mental illness. 4 stars!  Thanks to Laurence King Publishing and NetGalley for a copy in exchange for my honest review.
4252	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"A few years ago the art exhibit “Infinity Mirrors” by Yayoi Kusama came to a downtown Toronto art gallery and generated massive buzz. Like, lineups down the street at the crack of dawn every day kind of buzz. I went to see what the fuss was about and was blown away. I didn’t know much more about the artist until picking up this graphic novel. On one hand, it’s a wonderfully accessible way to get to know Yayoi (currently age 92!) and learn the history of her art in relation to her mental health challenges. She reveals, ""I fight pain, anxiety, and fear every day, and the only method I have found that relieved my illness is to keep creating art. I followed the thread of art and somehow discovered a path that would allow me to live."" It also details her rise to prominence in the 1960s New York City avant-garde scene. (Avant-garde as in she painted naked hippies with polka dots and ran away from the police a bunch of times.) But, on the other hand, the book only left me wanting more – the book is too light and is presented in a non-linear way with big gaps so I was left reading her Wikipedia profile afterwards and hoping for another travelling exhibition one day."
4253	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I received an e-galley from Laurence King Publishing via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.  I was first drawn to Yayoi Kusama’s work in 2013 when I stumbled upon an art installation of hers in Seoul, Korea. From then on, I had one eye on finding her other pieces whenever I was in an art space. It wasn’t until her exhibitions arrived in Toronto that I really got to appreciate her artwork. And in all this time, I never knew much about her - who she is, what her life had been like.  This graphic novel biography is the perfect way to learn about her - it seems only right that it is through a graphic novel, an art form, that one learns about Yayoi Kusama who has lived her life through art. It doesn’t go into the mundane details but rather her journey as an artist and what drives her as an artist, This graphic novel made me appreciate her even more as an artist and I look forward to when I can go view her artwork again, this time with new eyes and a fresh outlook due to my new knowledge of the artist.
4254	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Reasonable graphic novel biography of the life of Japanese modern artist Yayoi Kusama, from her indulgently monochrome early works to her allegedly pervy 60s hippie sexathon things, to her modern installations of multicoloured blobs and suchlike. You might take it from that that I'm not a huge fan of her output, and I guess you're right, but I would have expected to see the same visual exuberance on these pages, rather than the staid green-free palette we get here. Also it seems a little silly to balance her entire career on one incident, as this does, when her mother demanded she follow her dad, and found him being a busy customer in the whorehouse. Still, it shows talent coming through the permanent veil over things that was her mental illness, so it's certainly an interesting narrative to visit. Perhaps three and a half stars – for a quick browse it told me a finely judged level of detail, being neither too light nor niche, and seemed to replicate her output more or less accurately.
4255	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I admit I did not know much of Yayoi Kusama before stumbling on this book. I had seen her art around the internet, but never stopped taking an interest in the artist. So superficial of me! This book was, therefore, incredibly important in showing me the life and struggles of an incredible artist. It was, to me, incredibly sad to discover how prominent her art had been in the New York of 1960s and how forgotten she was in the following decades.  The artwork of this graphic novel is incredible! It is a work of art of its own, at the same time describing magnificently the artistic life of Kusama.  The whole novel revolves around Kusama’s mental illness, and how her fragile mental health has given birth to her art, how her art is a form of self-medication for her. I just wished that this novel was way longer. In little more than 100 pages, I felt that so much more could have been said about this complex artist. But at the same time, I feel that everything was told in a very graceful way and that everything which is needed to know to fully understand this artist and her art was perfectly told.  I would like to thank Laurence King Publishing and NetGalley for the advanced copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.
4256	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	In a word: Magnificent.  I confess to having only the slightest bit of knowledge about artist Yayoi Kusama before reading this, but I've come out the other side feeling like I was granted a stolen glimpse into the life of a genius.  Art is by its nature subjective, and people can debate beauty and personal tastes into infinity. What can't be denied, however, is that there are people who walk this Earth that are meant for more. People who were put here to live out their souls in their artworks - gifts to us mere mortals who could never hope to bring such emotion into the world.  Kusama is one such person, and this graphic novel captures her being exquisitely.  Every single page is crafted with exceptional care, from the dazzlingly beautiful illustrations and colouring, to the sparse yet infinitely deep text. Kusama's struggles and obsessions and drives sing out to you from the pages, and you're left wondering at it all.  Thank you to the author for this beautiful journey, and thank you to Netgalley for allowing me the opportunity to go on it.
4257	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Y’all. I have loved Yayoi Kusama since my arrival in Japan. Her art, to me, is Alice in Wonderland come to life... but as the author of this book explains, I HAS NO IDEA about Yayoi Kusama. I feel like the retrospective I visited in Tokyo about her made loose reference to some nudity.  Her art involved public performance orgies!!! I missed a whole free love phase! But you know what doesn’t miss the free love phase? This graphic biography.  It’s beautifully done. There are a lot of phalluses, and there are at least as many polka dots.  I felt like Kusama’s struggles with mental health we’re both the focus of the story and, somehow, glossed over. I really want to know more about her transition to living in permanent supervised psychiatric housing. I was interested to learn about her childhood and her relationship with her parents.  Overall, this story was fascinating. I want more people to know the story of Yayoi Kusama. What am incredible human, an incredible artist. Deep bow to the artist/author and the translator for bringing her story to life.
4258	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thank you to Laurence King Publishing Ltd and NetGalley for the Advanced Reader's Copy!  Available Sept 15 2020  I remember enviously and wonderously staring at my friend's Instagram posts in the Kusama galleries in New York and Chicago. I wished so badly to be in those large rooms, staring at the infinite circles of life. However, I had no idea about Kusama's equally compelling life story. Thanks to Elisa Macellari's simple yet effective illustrated biography, I learned about Kusama's early years, her free love campaigns in New York City in the 60s and the eventual hospitalization. In simple red, black and white, Macellari stays true to Kusama's original style and tries to do her justice.  My only critique would be that I would have liked to see more words from Kusama herself. Oftentimes, the author attempts to summarize large patches of time. However, perhaps that is the limitation of the biography genre as a whole. Overall, an enjoyable read!
4259	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama, The Graphic Novel, is an attempt by Elisa Macellari to chronicle the influential artist's life journey from Nagano Prefecture in Japan to New York and back to Japan. She also explores Yayoi Kusama's mental disability and how much of it influenced her art.  WHY I LOVE THE BOOK This is a book that showcases her contribution to the alternative movements that exists within the United States at the time. The author also reveals Kusama's ambitions and struggles within and outside those movements. I appreciate the inclusion of friends who helped her on her way as well as a peek into her artistic process.  DISLIKES The illustration here does little to elevate the story, but I love the colour choices and the representations of Kusama's art.  WHO IS IT FOR Kusama's fan will love this. Comics and graphic novel readers with a bent towards the biography genre might find something to chew on here.  Many thanks to Laurence King Publishing for a review copy.
4260	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama tells the story of the artist Yayoi Kusama, an iconic artist from rural Japan. Kusama’s biography illustrates her humble and difficult beginnings, with an abusive family who did not support her art, her mental illness as a result, to her progression as an artist living in America. Kusama’s personal life as well as artistic stirrings are illustrated vividly, and the deep thought process of her art is explained. The drive of Kusama is explained in detail, from her fears and disgust regarding romance and sex, her mental breakdowns and desperate drive to continue. In the graphic novel, the reader is able to see the mental and artistic progression of Kusama, as both progresses, the art progresses. The plot of her art is shown in vivid detail, showing the reader depictions of her most popular work. This visual doorway to understanding brings Kusama back to her homeland of Japan, where she is finally accepted. While the plot seems unfinished, this appears to be because 
4261	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thank you to Netgally and the publisher for providing me with an eARC of this graphic novel, but all thoughts and opinions are my own.  Okay, so I have a confession. I was gifted an eARC of this quite awhile ago, but it never loaded properly. However, my library finally bought a copy so I got to read it and it was great!  I really enjoyed learning about Yayoi Kusama, her life, and art. I already knew a bit about her from my Art History classes in university, however, this was great because it went a bit more in depth than my general modern art history course. It was incredible to watch her go from Japan to New York in the 1960s. I probably would have been terrified.  The art was great and it really highlights Kusama's artistic sensibilities and style. She's really creative and unique. It also discusses her challenges with mental health, identity, being a woman in a man's world. It was really well done.
4262	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	(early copy obtained bia NetGalley) This graphic novel introduced me to the work of Yayoi Kusama. I greatly enjoyed reading about her early life in Japan, the difficult relationship with her parents, and her escape to NYC where she pursued different types of art, many involving polka dots and series of objects. Even in the US, the society was (and sadly still is) inherently patriarchal and her art and activism became more political. The artwork in the comic book was rich and impressive, with stark colours, and appears loyal to the artist itself, There were many topics that were touched upon that I wish had been explored further such as mental health, her art and happenings involving the LGBTQ community. Nevertheless, this is a great start and definitely succeeds in instilling into the reader a need to find out more about this terrific artist.
4263	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	We delve into the story of a young girl born in Japan, her family problems, and her dilemmas about the life she wants to live. Kusama is a girl who seeks to become known as an artist and achieves it and in this work we see her beginnings, her problems, her passage through time until the end, how she was considered in the USA how she lived mostly there and the events that happened . We see how Japanese society saw her, and everything that surrounded her returning there, the life of the artist Kusama is very interesting and at times very intriguing. This graphic novel shows us her art, and her peculiar way of narrating the story makes her very close to knowing the artist, the truth was very hypnotizing and it was a pleasure to read about the artist, in her we can also see the growth of the art world with women and their evolution over the decades and how people see it in society.
4264	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"In this graphic novel we get to know who the artist Yayoi Kusama is. I haven't heard of their name, but I have seen some of their art pieces online.  I picked out this novel because of the color scheme on the cover. It follows throughout the whole story as we get glimpses of Kusama's past with family, work and struggles of life. After reading this, my first thought was...""wow, she's a badass' and my hope is to someday see her work in person. The art style was the best part of this graphic. Unfortunately, the text didn't provide the same type of feeling as the art. It felt like different sections were missing words or at least scattered everywhere. I wished it would have dug a little deeper and had a constant story flow.  I would like to say thank you to netgalley for proving me with this arc in exchange for an honest review."
4265	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review  Kusama is a biographical Graphic Novel of the artist Yayoi Kusama and her struggles throughout her life and her career.  I will start out by saying that Yayoi Kusama herself is an awesome and memorable artist. It was interesting to see and learn about her journey in a medium such as this. I thought the art used here was also quite intriguing and kept me entertained.  I do however think that the Graphic Novel came across a little bit too much like crossing lines on a list. ""This happened and then she did this and then this happened"". I was looking forward to having a more personal and perhaps more in-depth look into her art and life than that but that is hard to do in such a short manner. Seeing how the art was created and focusing more on the pieces would have been really interesting as well."
4266	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama by Elisa Macellari is a unique non-fiction graphic novel following an artistic woman and her life.  This was truly mesmerizing with an intriguing story and beautiful illustrations. The art style is unique and stands out, with bright colours yet simplistic styles. All the while looking complicated, which is an art all in itself.  I really liked seeing a non-fiction story about a woman hanging around in the graphic novels section. It showcased a really important story. I had never heard of Yayoi Kusama, and now I'm quite glad I did. It's something beautiful to look into. And, my goodness, she's 91 years old! How impressive! She was a strong advocator for mental health and her art was apart of her escape.  Three out of five stars.  Thank you to NetGalley and Laurence King Publishing for providing me a free copy of this book in exchange of an honest review.
4267	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This is a graphic novel interpretation of Kusama's life from childhood to older years. I am familiar with Kusama's work and I have also watched the documentary of her life which features a lot of what is shown in this book. Kusama is certainly an interesting artist and she really struggled in a male dominated artist scene for quite a while until she made a name for herself. Her art centres around obsessive dots and often includes hundreds of phallic objects which seem to have come about from issues in childhood that have contributed to her mental health issues her whole life. This book showcases many events in her life and even includes a bit of nudity from her pop up installations. The pictures draws perfectly on Kusama's style and is a great companion to the documentary which I would also recommend.
4268	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"There's something mesmerizing about Kusama's infinity rooms. I missed the chance to see her exhibit ""Love is Calling"" when it was in St. Pete, but as it is currently in Boston, maybe I'll make a Spring Break jaunt out of it. The electrifying, diminutive Japanese artist known for her polka dot phalluses and pumpkins and signature crimson hair, led a troubled life. I had no idea she was friends with Warhol and Dali, that she was inspired by O'Keeffe, that she was treated for psychic disorders that made her feel detached from the world and her own body, etc. I'm sad for her struggles, her sex aversions and arrests and family conflicts, but I'm grateful she channeled those dark energies into her gorgeous firefly-strewn art. This book had a wealth of knowledge, but I feel like it only was the tip of the iceberg and jumped around in chronology too much."
4269	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"The book is visually stunning with a psychedelic palette and beautifully patterns inline with the Japanese origins of the artist. The biography goes into her struggles with her mental health and how it influenced her art. Her art is distinctive and she was one of the first to venture into performance art and installation art which is more common nowadays but wasn't in the 1960s.  I picked this up after seeing a documentary on youtube about the artist (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wgSBt...). I realised that I had picked up this graphic novel at the SF Asian Museum of art on a whim. I wish the book had covered more about her collaborations with other artists who were inspired by her and also ""stole"" her ideas from her work to further their own work. Her rediscovery has brought her into the limelight again. A must-read if you like art biographies."
4270	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama by Elisa Macellari is a biographical graphic novel based around the life of the Japanese contemporary artist, Yayoi Kusama, who's art rose to prominence in New York in the 1960's.  I was lucky enough to have been to a Kusama art exhibit that features her famous Infinite Room installation at The Broad in Los Angeles, California. While Kusama has a fascinating upbringing with her parents and growing up in Japan, the thing that stuck out to me the most with this graphic novel are the illustrations.  I adored Elisa Maceralli's artwork and her interpretation of Kusama's famous pieces. The art style and color story featured in this book is stunning and truly riveting.  I received this book free from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
4271	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	3.5 stars, pointedly rounded up  A simple color scheme serves this graphic biography well: Japanese artist, Kusame’s signature tomato red, sky blueish, a pinch of desert peach and stark contrasts of black and white dot the story with biographical scenes. Kusame had a life of suffering and psychic disorders and a sense of melancholy permeates the pages.  Like good books in all genres, Macellari’s graphic novel makes the reader want to discover more. I looked up more information about Kusama and her art. (I vaguely remember reading about nude performance art and polka dots when I was a young teen. Her ‘performance art’ was considered quite inappropriate in many circles.)  Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for providing an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review.
4272	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama by Elisa Macellari is a free NetGalley e-comicbook that I read in late September.  The artist Yayoi Kusama creating art in New York and Japan with a gap of twenty years in between, drawing and painting at a high volume to keep schizoaffective symptoms at bay. Her art is made up of repeating dots and circular, nuggetlike loops that form textures, wavelengths with loud screeches and blares of red. She also has run-ins with other artists, arranging counterculture protest performances, relationship with Joseph Cornell, returns to Japan in its sameness and workaholic pace, and, after going into a psychiatric hospital, her art takes a turn into dark symbolism. Also, I offer a trichtophobic trigger warning if you research online for her real-life artpieces! 
4273	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I loved the art, and I enjoyed learning a little more about Yayoi Kusama’s background and her own art. Her story is beautifully told, though I definitely found the timeline a little confusing at various points; there are some definite gaps in the narrative that I am curious about, but there may be written biographies on her that go into more detail than Macellari was able to in graphic novel form.  Actually, the whole graphic novel has sort of a dream quality to it, so I can see the gaps in the timeline kind of making sense, and I find there are certain words and phrases and images that are kind of stuck on repeat in my brain now. It’s an interesting view into Kusama’s world.  If you enjoy biographies in a visual format, art, or art history, you’ll probably enjoy this one too.
4274	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I knew very little about Yayoi Kusama going into this graphic novel biography and this was an amazing starting point. Elisa Macellari approaches Kusama's life with her own artist's eye and puts together an impactful story with a purposefully limited palette and effective page and panel layouts that emphasize the most profound emotional moments. Macellari shows Kusama's difficult childhood as well as her art, relationships and mental health struggles in a way that manages to somehow be both nuanced and concise. I looked up more about Kusama after and found a few events that were not included that some might feel deserved more attention, but it seems to be a solid introduction and I found it very moving and beautiful.
4276	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	So-so graphic depiction about a unique and creative artist maverick.  Since it's summarising the most important aspects of Kusama, she doesn't get a real personality and feels more like an avatar. Which is often the challenge with biographical graphic novels:  Do you focus on the character or the summary of their life?  The best and bigger graphic novels manage both.  This one chooses the ladder and gives you solid cliff-notes of Kusama.  Surreal moments where dreams and reality merge are prominent, perhaps a reference to the mental illness of the artist?  Since the artist Kusama is so unique, I hoped for a drawing style that would match her style.  All in all, it's still worth a read if you're a Kusama fan.
4277	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I found this little gem while wandering around the bookstore to calm my anxiety down... I don't know what drew me to it, maybe it was the colors, since red white and black are my favorite. Once I found out what it was about, I immediately bought it! I've heard about Kusama during a seminar regarding art and psychology and it was a great opportunity to learn more about this amazing artist. I don't know if I should call myself one, but painting has been a huge part of my life, and certainly my way out when I find myself trapped in that damn black hole of anxiety... So, yes. Karma. So happy I found it! Great artwork, very unique and interesting. Written with so much respect and love for Kasuma.
4279	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama by Elisa Macellari is a graphic novel biography to the wonderfully eccentric Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama. The illustration style is a beautiful homage to the artist herself, using a similar colour palette and her repetitive infinity net style to convey her neurosis. It admirably tackles how Kusama pulls herself through dark times and manages her mental health through her passion in art.  I didn't give Kusama a higher rating, because it felt like it was only skimming the surface of her life and work. I felt like it could have gone a little deeper.  3/5  Thanks to NetGalley for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review.
4280	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	***Thank you, NetGalley, for this ARC in exchange for my honest review***  I knew little of Yayoi Kusama's work apart from what is often shown on social media, so this biography in graphic novel form was a great introduction. From her early days and challenges with her family to her struggles with mental health, this covers it all. The most fascinating part for me was her work as a form of protest and how she utilized bodies in them. The art in this graphic novel is pleasing and emotionally evocative without being overly done up. All in all, this is a great intro to the artist and it whet my appetite enough that I wanted to seek out more information.
4281	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I enjoyed learning about Kusama. Had never heard of her prior to reading a review of this very book from a goodreads friend (thanks Alexander).  The art is not something I am necessarily into but her history and story was quite fascinating and her mental health challenges were eye opening as well. They always say there is a fine line between madness and genius and for some people it really is. The issues she had with her mother and father shaped her tremendously. I read this wishing to know more. There is a documentary I plan to watch soon called Kusama Infinity which is also referenced in the references.
4282	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Popsugar Reading Challenge Prompt: book about art or an artist  I knew of Yayoi Kusama because of her wildly colorful installation pieces that have been all over Instagram the last few years. What I didn't know is that she was a fixture on the NYC art scene during the 60's. She corresponded with Georgia O'Keefe. Had dinners with Dali. Fought with Warhol over the male models she needed for her happenings.  I didn't know that Yayoi Kusama's mental health played and still plays a huge role in her art.  There were so many things I didn't know about Kusama and I need to know more because this graphic novel biography only skims the surface.
4283	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Yayoi Kusama is one of my favorite artists, with a modern, instantly recognizable style that clearly communicates her state of mind. This graphic novel explores the roots of Kusama’s renowned career, from her strained relationship with her parents to the open arms of the New York (and eventually, global) art world. Her ability to use art to work through her psychological issues is inspiring. Most fans won’t find a lot of new information here, but it’s presented in a wonderfully unique way. The author’s spare, sympathetic text pairs perfectly with her crisp, expressive images, giving readers insight into the psyche of one of the world’s premier visual artists. 
4284	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	In my study of art (frankly more classic than contempory) I have seen not nearly enough mention of Yayoi Kusama for what she has accomplished in her life. The book points out that the art world is dominated by men--white, american men. Bravo to this brave Japanese woman for pushing boundaries, braving a misogynistic art world, leaving the comfort of her home and fighting her own demons. What better way to study an artist than through the fabulous story-telling media of a graphic novel. Parent warning- due to nudity and sexuality you might want to prescreen the book before letting your young child read it. 
4285	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Very quick read! Learned about Kusama, all I knew of her was her dotted collection since she had collaborated with Louis Vuitton. This was informative and interesting especially learning about her early works with public nudity. My qualms with the book stemmed from the last of information in the text bubbles. Perhaps I’m used to mangas and their overt explanations but this I found was a bit more elusive. The drawings were beautiful. Kinda reminded me of how I draw some of my own drawings which felt surreal to look at. Plus the authors name is Elisa!  Also I wonder if Mean Girls got the boob cut out idea from Kusama? Cuz that’s the first thing that came to mind.
4286	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A solid introduction to her biography and exploration of her art that encourages anyone interested to search out more information about here. It doesn’t pretend to capture all the complexities of her life. I would be interested to have a conversation with other people who are not particularly sexual about their feelings around her early work with the “happenings” because I’m finding myself in a loop thinking about a question posed in one of the panels: “but is it art?” I think anyone who has liked her work for the organic forms and polka dots might be slightly taken aback learning the origins of that work. 
4287	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Reading 2023 Book 202: Kusama: The Graphic Novel by Elisa Macellari  An adult GN biography about a Japanese artist.  Synopsis: Follow her incredible journey in this vivid graphic biography which details her bold departure from Japan as a young artist, her embrace of the buzzing New York art scene in the 1960s, and her eventual return home and rise to twenty-first century super-fame.  Review: Another book I read to enhance my art knowledge. I had no idea about this artist, her life is so very interesting. Her art is definitely off-beat. I would strongly recommend this book, get your learnin' on, 4⭐️.
4288	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A fascinating look at an artist I knew nothing about! I ended up doing a lot of Googling after reading this book to find out more about the artist. I felt like the way the story was told was a little dishonest - or maybe they just really wanted to praise the artist and not be too critical? Seemed like they left quite a lot out in order to present a picture that left out the mental illness as much as possible. The impact and level of the art was beyond measure though. SO cool to learn about, and I loved the moments where we got to hear seemingly from the artist herself about what her inspirations were. 
4289	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I got this ARC on Netgalley for a exchange /honest review & rated this 3.5 out of 5 stars. It was a refreshing take on a graphic novel biography and appreciated the narrative a reader can go into understanding the life of Kusama. I appreciated how the stylistic elements aligned with Kusama’s artistic style to give the reader more context and immersion to her works. I find it challenging to condense someone’s life into a short amount of pages (under 200) but this is a pretty good read if you’re interested in a new spin of biographies. 
4290	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I knew little about this artist before I read this book and I thought it was a very good introduction to her life and work, but was slightly disappointed that it seemed to end so abruptly. It didn’t really highlight how she is still exhibiting her work today at 91 years old. The art of this graphic novel is fantastic, however. I really loved the color story and the contrast with Georgia O’Keefe was stunning. It was really well done how the author incorporated Kusama’s aesthetic into the narrative of her life. I received an advanced copy of this book in exchange for my honest review.
4291	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I got this on Netgalley in exchange for an honest review! This is a really great graphic novel about Kusama! I had only seen some of her art before but was not familiar with her story. This gave me a great insight into her as a person, both from her upbringing in Japan, her struggle with art in the US, her career taking off, and her declining mental health. The pictures here really help the storytelling, with both showing the reader the various art she has done, but also to connect it directly to her state of mind outside of the art. Really glad I read this!
4292	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I must admit I did not know of Yayoi Kusama's work, so thank you so much to NetGalley for introducing me to her story. I do wish that the story would have gone more into context of her climb to her fame from her initial struggle. However I found the graphic novel a piece of work within itself, with beautiful use of color and line - just fascinating. Her battle with mental illness was very interesting and handled well.  Thank you to NetGalley and Laurence King Publishing for the advanced copy in exchange for an honest review.
4293	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I am ashamed to say that as both and Artist and Art Historian I was never introduced to Yayoi Kusama's work. I love Pop Art and it inspires my own work, so this was on graphic novel memoir I will read over and over. Kusama has had one amazingly interesting life as a lot of the artists of her time have, I mean who could really organize and artistic orgy these days? If you are a fan of memoirs of graphic novel biographies, pick up this book and be immersed in the wonderful life and art of Yayoi Kusama.
4294	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Readers will walk away from this book knowing more about Yayoi Kusama, the eccentric Japanese artist. In particular, the book describes various relationships from her unsupportive parents to her close friendships with Andy Warhol and Salvador Dali. Readers also are exposed to Kusama's mental challenges and how these impacted her life.  Sadly the book was too short and I was left craving more information. It also had several explicit drawings that would make this not a fit for middle grade readers. Recommended HS and up.
4295	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama is a terrific graphic novel. The art is stunning and the story riveting. Before this book, I knew cursory information about Kusama, but now I have a deeper respect and understanding of her art. This book traces Kusama's journey from Japan to the United States then back to Japan. My only tiny criticism is that the verb tenses got tricky for me. Marcellari blended past and present tense, which got a little jarring. As an aside, this book is a perfect gift for an artist friend or family member. As a reader and artist myself, I related to Kusama's obsession with death.
4296	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	An interesting approach to a graphic novel of a very interesting artist. I have been to exhibits by this artist before and have always been fascinated by the infinity rooms she created (so much so that I'm hoping to create a miniature version of one in my house someday). I knew she knew and interacted with many of the other famous artists of the day. I knew she suffered from mental illnesses.  There was just so much about her that I did not know and strangely, a graphic novel might just be the best way to learn more about her.
4297	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I’ve read and learned a lot about Yayoi Kusama, so while this book shared nothing I did not already know, I did thoroughly enjoy the aesthetic and graphic art. The simplistic writing seemed to want to match the art but often ended up sounding too blithe and singsong to truly convey the gravitas of a great artist’s life. The emphasis on her performance works was nice to see and beautifully illustrated. Overall a good graphic novel biography with a gorgeously limited palette and open, breathing composition. 
4298	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"""No pain could ever discourage me. It's how I was born and how I have lived; it's how I'll continue to live"".  This graphic novel documents her childhood, her artistic journey in New York to her international exhibitions. There was also mention on her relation or connection with like-minded artists like Andy Warhol, Salvador Dali, her friendship with Joseph Cornell and her eventual return to Japan. Kusama's life was illustrated beautifully and her mental condition was told delicately. It is a brief read with amazing artwork but I wish it was longer."
4299	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I only learned about Yayoi Kusama a few years ago, thanks to an excellent exhibit I attended in Las Vegas. Experiencing one of her Infinity Boxes was a treat I may always remember. This short graphic novel may leave the novice with more questions than answers (I suggest watching the excellent Kusama - Infinity Yayoi Kusama was/is an artist ahead of her time, which is why is she being rediscovered and more fully appreciated today.
4301	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	So... I was searching for books for an artist study on an artist I had never heard of, and this book popped up. I read a lot of middle grade graphic novels and just assumed that this was one for kids, too. Au contraire. I flipped open to the middle and was taken aback by the graphic-ness of this graphic novel. Definitely an adult book and not what I was expecting.  I always struggle in rating biographies. Am I rating it low because of the person's life or because of the author's depiction. I thought this graphic novel was well done as a glimpse into Kusama's life.
4302	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Artwork and color choices alone make it worth the read, but otherwise it was mediocre and not done well. I’m not sure if it’s the translation, the author, or both, but there was a serious lack of punctuation that bothered me throughout. Additionally, there were a lot of parts that felt cut and pasted together without context, so it was sometimes hard to understand the timeline. Lastly, I really wanted more details about her childhood and illnesses. If you want amazing artwork and pleasing aesthetics, pick up this book. If you want legit information about Kusama, use Google. 
4303	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	In her signature lovely art style with both vibrant and soft colors, Macellari brilliantly portrays an entire life in a condensed, graphic format. She draws from all stages of Yayoi Kusama's life in order to construct a holistic portrait of the woman behind the art. Kusama is a remarkable woman that I can't believe I hadn't even heard of before reading this. Her art deals with obsessions and infinity in a striking and vulnerable manner. She is a brave, bold, and determined woman who turns her demons into art to save herself.
4304	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I only had a vague idea of Kusama’s work, but I’ve always found her intriguing. This graphic novel provides some great insights into her past and the people/places that have influenced her work. The illustrations are gorgeous- realistic and rendered in a limited color palette, they invite you to ponder their meaning. There are also surprise appearances from Georgia O’Keefe, And Warhol, and Salvador Dali as well (as an art nerd, I loved this). I’m glad that I purchased this one so I can refer back to it.
4305	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Definitely offers part of the trajectory of the artist's history but major life changes happen and it's unclear why; in favor presenting an artist's struggle/journey in artistic terms (e.g, abstract terms) we aren't given a clear idea about why certain things happen.  I learned some things but certainly want more information; I think the New York Times magazine did an in-depth profile of Kusama a few years ago and I'm tempted to just go read that now that I've finished that. Not a mark in favor of this book, I'm afraid.
4308	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I had never heard of the artist Yayoi Kusama before. She was very active in the New York art scene in the 1960's. Her varied art styles are not my thing but the graphic novel was an interesting look at how mental challenges can be diverted to incredible art. While the illustrator gave looks at her style there were no real images of things she actually did which would have helped the narrative. If you are interested in this Japanese artist it is worth the quick read that it is for a basic background on her. 
4309	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I have been fascinated by Yayoi Kusama's art installations of the last few decades, but I wasn't fully familiar with her early work or influences. Reading this graphic biography was a delightful way to learn more about her. I worried that the book's illustrator wouldn't be able to reflect the power or scale of her art, but I was pleasantly surprised by the two-dimensional representations of the three-dimensional art.
4310	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This graphic novel would make Kusama proud. It is deep and reflective and shows up the story of a woman history is trying to forget. The art is a testament to Kusama's own style. My only gripe is that it's too short and I'm yearning for more. The author did an amazing job using creative freedom and the background art styles to tell the story. I recommend it to anyone who didn't get a chance to learn about this amazing woman in art history.
4312	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This was certainly an interesting read, but I don’t feel the illustrations captured the vibrancy of Kusama’s work. A hard task to achieve in its own right. However, the story was also a bit superficial and lacked the elaboration I was hoping for. Regardless of the weaknesses, it’s an important and fascinating story; I just wanted more. More creativity with the illustrations and more narrative depth. 
4313	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I'd never heard of Yayoi Kusama before reading this, so was interested to see what this book was about.  It's an comic style layout of the artists life which provides a good overview of her childhood, how she got started and some of her most famous art from the 60's and 70's in New York and Toyko.  The drawings are very intriguing and it feels like an usual way to portray a life, but I did enjoy reading it.  I received this book from Netgalley in return for a honest review.
4314	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	While the illustrations were marvelous and captivating, the storytelling was really odd. This is not a great way to explore Kusama's life if you're vastly unfamiliar with any of her work, nor does it go into any sort of detail why or how her art is done the way it is.  I purchased this as an impulse when I heard about the book's publishing, but did not read it until a month or two later. I would rate this between a 2 or 3.
4315	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Totally ignorant of the artist before introduced to this book via a curated grab-bag from the Library as a measure to deal with COVID-19 suspension of services, I lucked out again. Although I don't really get her art, I can empathize with the artist's passion, and find some of it appealing. There are some fascinating patterns and pages that bear further scrutiny. Her story also works as a biography, but leaves you with the impression that she is her work. 
4316	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Yayoi Kusama is my favorite artist, so when I stumbled upon this graphic novel about her in a museum gift shop I was so excited. She isn’t just a brilliant artist, but an interesting person. I would say that this book needs a little more context, so I would recommend watching the documentary “Kusama-Infinity” first. But the artwork is stunning and I learned things I didn’t know about her before. What a fascinating woman, whose art has made the world a more interesting place. 
4317	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"From a dysfunctional family in a strict, orderly society, Kusama came to NYC and explored her art in the midst of the 60s and early 70s. Besides paintings, she did performance art, clothing, and much more.  Interesting note about her snail mail conversation with Georgia O'Keefe while Kusama was still in Japan.  Sad about the ""hole"" in her story where she goes back to Japan and into psychiatric care. It's fun to see her come back and be respected."
4318	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	An interesting reflection on Yayoi Kusama’s life and career with several fun facts thrown in at times. Unfortunately, the English translation is a bit rough with a lot of the writing sounding off, and the narration is passive with little sense of personality or emotion to the story. The art does adopt Kusama’s style, however, I wish it had been further integrated using the style to define the page layouts rather than just fill the basic grids (there are some exceptions).
4319	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I enjoyed going through Yayoi's life story. Novel is light and ilustration is nice. I gives you a sneak peak into the life of this interesting contemporary artist, though i have to say, that some parts remained a bit shallow for me. I think that even through shorter forms and especially graphic novels (that use picture as means of communication) you can dive deeper into specificties and peculiarties of a personality. ...Just as Kusama's art did. 
4320	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	HIGHLY recommend for fans of Kusama and for those who are unaware of this POWERHOUSE of an artist. Provides a really interesting look of her early years and the New York art scene in the late 60s and early 70s, one of my personal favorite times in history. You can tell the graphic novelist really loves Kusama and her story is told with great care and detail. Visually it is a treat and left me feeling quite inspired. Beautiful. 
4322	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	The graphics are very well made and beautiful, and those were mainly the reasons I bought the book. However, the narrative is a bit bland, very superficial, and poorly written, making the book lack depth or emphasis on Kusama's biography and state of mind. I believe that a graphic novel should be mostly a summary, and this might be the motif for this book; however, this superficiality makes the overall result uninteresting
4323	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"Whoa, Kusama was way more radical than I realized, staging orgies as performance art 👀 This did a nice job integrating Kusama's style into the storytelling. The tone was a little odd, opening with a prose introduction that's very warm and close, then a somewhat more distant narration through the comic. It seems to gloss over her ""forgotten"" years quickly, and doesn't quite delve enough into the why beneath her decision to stay in Japan despite her sense of isolation. It treats her mental illness gently and kindly."
4325	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Reading the other reviews, I have the impression that readers are rating Kusama's work, not Macellari's. It is a tall order to illustrate a graphic novel about an artist with such a strong aesthetic and I don't think this graphic novel rose to the challenge. I didn't learn anything about Kusama that you can't find in the summary at the museum and, while pleasant, the illustrations didn't seem very inspired to me.
4326	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I have never heard of this artist until I read this graphic novel. Yayoi Kusama was an artist in the 1960's with Wahol and Dahli. She had very unhappy childhood in Japan; her parents did not encourage her to become an artist. The graphic Novel was beautifully illustrated and showed her work and dealt with her mental illness. The novel encouraged me to look her up and love her vivid and beautiful work.
4327	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A graphic biography of an artist who in her own time was as famous as Warhol and Dali (who both make cameos in this book) but who because of her mental illness and non-neurotypical way of seeing the world was often penniless, and living in mental institutions. Yayoyi Kusama is actually still alive, living in Japan and making bizarrely beautiful art. 
4328	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"Loved the artwork. Beautiful, but brief biography. I am fascinated by Kusama's relationship with Joseph Cornell and her relation to other contemporary artists, but those are just touched on. This is a great starting point for anyone who wants to learn more about ""the lady who paints all the dots and pumpkins."" "
4330	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"""You see these empty hands? One day they'll hold everything I want.""  Biography of the famous and beloved artist. A few sentences were clunky, but that often happens with translated works. More of a focus on biographical details than on particular works of art. Appealing color palette. Great introduction to this artist."
4331	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I might have learned more from this graphic novel than the Kusama docent lecture! Loved how Kusama's techniques blended in and out of the story. Sort of what I had expected from the Van Gogh Immersive experience, and instead, there were just projected animated paintings to a slightly random soundtrack...
4332	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	i picked up the graphic novel not knowing anything about Kusama. i love and respect her creativity.  the novel is beautifully written and it illustrates Kusama’s personal issues in a tactful manner.  Favorite quote: “They prepared me for the light and shows of life and death… and showed me the machinations wit which society endeavors to control the times in which we live” (118-119).
4333	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	If you don't know the story of Kusama, this book makes it even more confusing! If you do know it, it is still confusing.  Although beautifully illustrated, to me it does not celebrate her, but makes her more of a martyr. A weak person that happened to make some art and accidentally became famous for it.  Her true story is not rightfully told in this book.
4334	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	In „Kusama” by Elisa Macellari, the superb illustrations pay homage to artist Yayoi Kusama while telling a brief visual story of her life and art. I loved how the illustrator's passion for the artist transpired in the choice of panes and the use of color. It's a good introduction to Kusama and a very good illustration work by Macellari. 
4335	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I really enjoyed this graphic novel about the life of a popular Japanese artist that I had never heard of, Yayoi Kusama, who is still alive and in her 90’s. Through art, the author was amazingly able to capture Kusama’s mental health issues, her abstract creativity, and her sexual inhibitions. This was a quick, but impactful read. I’d love to know how Kusama is doing now.
4336	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Yayoi Kusama is so amazing. The more I learn about her, the more amazed and impressed I am with her talent and her ability to make art her entire life. This graphic novel serves to introduce Yayoi and her work without dwelling on her personal struggles. It’s good for any reader interested in Yayoi’s work and life. 
4337	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Giving this five stars mainly for the gorgeous illustrations, otherwise I would have rated it much lower as I felt the story itself was a bit lacking. I almost wish this was a series of graphic novels that could be dedicated to specific parts of Yayoi’s life, and diving a little deeper into her artist journey.
4338	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I am a HUGE fan of graphic novels, and particularly this series 'Graphic Lives'. This biography of Kusama is exquisite - the visuals are divine, the story is interesting and I came out the end feeling like I actually knew something about both the art and the person. I am going to collect the entire series.
4339	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Naturally, it feels like I have a piece of Kusama’s artwork with me all the time. And that her story being the representation of her art in my home is the perfect “thank you” to her. Learning about her mental health journey gives me a greater appreciation of her art other than it’s mesmerizing to look at. 
4341	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	It was just okay. I liked the drawings. The storytelling and words were too banal for a book directed at a more adult audience. It felt like I was being talked to like a child. I couldn’t tell what the point of view was. They didn’t mention the pumpkins or infinity mirror rooms like I would expect in a biography of Kusama’s life. 
4342	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	" What I extra appreciated about this book is that the author clearly loves and respects Yakoi Kusama. Americans would say Yakoi Kusama has a mental illness. This author calls it her ""condition"". So much kinder and softer a way to frame what so many people live with. Excellent way to help stop the stigma. "
4343	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A great graphic novel biography about a very interesting Japanese-American artist with even more interesting art. The author does a good job contextualizing Kusama's creativity and mental illness in her strict Japanese upbringing, American counterculture movements, and personal sexuality. I wouldn't call the graphic art in the book spectacular, but it gets the job done.
4344	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Visually this book was a work of art in and of itself. Why the three stars then? I wanted more, more of her history and of her arts history. As someone who has gone to a full introspective of her art, there was so much that just didn't have enough. If you loved this book I highly suggest doing more research to find out more about this amazing artist 
4345	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Lovely illustrations, but the narrative lacked the Kusama-like atmosphere I was hoping to find. Some side stories are only alluded to, which is a shame (eg. The Andy Warhol relationship and how he essentially plagiarized her work). Overall, a nice book but also a missed opportunity for a more powerful graphic novel on the fascinating life of a complex human being an great artist.
4346	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I had no idea who Yayoi Kusama was when I started reading this graphic biography. The art was unique and the story follow Kusama's artistic life. A couple of times during the book, I looked up various references to Kusama's work.  The images really added to the story, often more so than the brief snippets of words on the page. An interesting read about an artist who really seemed to push boundaries with expression.  Thanks to NetGalley and the publisher for an ARC of this book in exchange for an honest review.
4347	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Yayoi Kusama is a legend, and this is what makes me love this graphic novel even more. Elisa Macellari captured the essences of Kusama's life, and the art and content of the graphic novel is definitely my cup of tea. Love Kusama and everything related to her. Strongly recommended.
4348	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This is a beautiful graphic novel about the life and art of Yayoi Kasuma. I went to Infinity Mirrors at the Art Gallery of Ontario in 2018 and loved it. I learned a lot more about Kasuma’s life and her motivation for creating her art from this book.
4349	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	*reviewed from uncorrected eARC / netgalley  graphic biography / Japanese artist (social history, mental illness) a brief overview of the artist's life, just enough to pique the interest of readers who don't know a lot about Kusama.
4350	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A wonderful graphic novel about an artist I hadn’t even heard of but keen to learn more now. Beautifully illustrated and a fascinating story about culture, art and mental health.  Thanks to NetGalley for my review copy.
4351	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thanks to Netgalley for letting me have early access to this. I've always been fascinated by Kusama's art, so I was excited to learn more about her life. Her story is very compelling and the art in this graphic novel is GORGEOUS, so I highly recommend it. 
4352	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama is punctuated by its absolutely beautiful and vivid artwork. I love the creativity of Elisa Macellari in both storytelling, personal vulnerability, and visual method. I can see this as the kind of book that pushes the graphic novel medium in noteworthy and award-winning ways.
4353	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This is a good biography, personally didn't knew about Yayoi Kusama and now want to see the movie bio. It's a good start into the work of a mostly unknown artist.  I also made a Spanish review here:  https://pananime.com/LeAn/index.html
4354	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Maybe not quite as full a picture of Yayoi Kusama's life and art as I'd have liked, but Macellari's work takes a good look at her early years in Japan and New York (including brushes with Warhol and a Nyack-based artist named Joseph Cornell. (e-galley from NetGalley)
4355	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	3.5 The art in this book is wonderful and that is where the bulk of my rating lives. This story is to simple, too glossed over for such a monumental and complex artist. It simplifies too much. Now the art is spectacular and I am glad to have it in my collection. I would recommend giving it a read. 
4356	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thank you NetGalley for the ARC. This graphic novel/biography is a quick read that draws you in with its lovely illustrations. It was a fun introduction to the multimedia artist. I recommend this book to art fans and graphic novel fans.
4357	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"Well, I hadn't heard of Kusama before so in that respect I am happy to have finally learnt about her. Upon searching around, I see that there is an ""Infinity"" art installation nearby. I would plan to visit it once its open and safe to visit."
4358	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I don't know much about the artist Kusama before reading this graphic novel biography - it makes me want to look up all the different works of art she did. Somewhat tragic life story, beautiful color palette.
4359	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Wonderful minimal illustrations with a beautiful limited color palette. Not an especially deep look at Kusama’s life or artwork but an interesting and satisfying one. I did learn a few things I didn’t know, feel inspired to go learn more about her life, and overall really enjoyed the book.
4360	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Very powerful graphically. Highlights are the depictions of Kusama’s mental illness; the illustrations truly make clear the tie between her trauma and her art. I am so happy to have learned more about her life and I’m glad she is finally getting the recognition she deserves. 
4361	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I really loved this book. The art in the style of Kusama to tell her story is great. The author looked unflinchingly at Kusama's genius and her strengths and frailties that fueled her creativity. What a great way to learn about an artist.
4362	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Fascinating account of Kusama’s life and connections. I had no idea that her correspondence with Georgia O’Keeffe helped bring her to America, nor of her deep friendship with Joseph Cornell. Beautiful illustrations and respect for Kusama as an artist and individual.
4363	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I love the work of Kusama, but I was actually not that familiar with her life story. This was a nice introduction in the form of a graphic novel.  Good for those who like biographies and who like art.  I received a copy from Edelweiss+ all opinions are my own.
4364	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Such a beautiful book, the colors are really quite intriguing and the way in which the story is told is fascinating.  I also love the integration of Kusama’s style and work into the book. Very lovely.
4365	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This was an interesting way to read a biography about someone I haven’t heard of. I would recommend this graphic novel to anyone who enjoys her art or wants to learn more about her. I would recommend this book to to a Young Adult audience and up. 
4366	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This is a really brief overview of the life of the artist Yayoi Kusama. While it does give you a good idea of her art and the driving forces behind it, it's all pretty brief without a lot of detail. It's a graphic novel, so I guess it can't, but it's not a very satisfying read. 
4367	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This would be a good introduction for those unfamiliar with the works of Yayoi Kusama. I learned a couple of things, but wished there was a little more about some aspects of her personal life. Hopefully it will prompt readers to look her up and see her actual body of work. 
4368	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	For those of you who can’t get enough of Yayoi Kusama now that the fantastical exhibition at the Berlin Gropius Bau has ended. Macellar’s graphics here definitely capture the artist’s spirit and give insight into Kusama’s particularly remarkable journey through life.
4369	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama- Elisa Macellari  ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️  This amazing graphic novel let me get to know Kusama well without reading her thick biography. Even earlier then Andy Warhol, she was/ is the original pop art icon. Check it out!!! 
4370	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	3.5 I loved the illustrations. The writing was “ok”. I don’t think this was translated well. A lot of the sentences are pretty clunky. I also wish it had been longer. The structure of the book is good, but her career spans so much time, this left me wanting more 
4372	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Visually, this is top notch! Macellari does a great job immersing the reader in Kusama's world and highlighting key aspects of her biography and art career. The narrative ends a bit abruptly, in my opinion, but that might be a nitpick. :)
4373	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I am loving graphic novel art biographies that imitate the style of the artist - so gorgeous. Kusama is such an icon.  This graphic novel is a bit sparse on Kusama's story and I'm not sure if I would have gotten all of it if I hadn't watched the documentary first.
4374	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Read this in one sitting, less than an hour. I loved it. The art was gorgeous. I just wished I learned a little more about her, something I feel is only possible through admiring her art in person. :) I love Yayoi, what an inspiration. 🤍
4375	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	so good ! i have always been fascinated by her art work and her life, so it was rlly cool to read more about her life and her journey to where she is now ! i rlly enjoyed the way it was written and drawn love !!!!!!!!!! 💓💓💓
4377	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I've been fascinated by Kusama since I read about her in an art magazine a couple of years ago. I wish the book had spent a bit more time delving into Kusama's complicated relationship with sex as an asexual woman in the midst of a sexual revolution, but other than that it was good.
4378	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	hard to rate, the art was prob a 4.5 for me! but the writing and editing was poor. it didn’t go deep enough or have good pacing, as well as just needing some serious edits. maybe the translation is the problem! I did learn more about Kusama & loved the art. 
4379	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Her art is revolutionary. The dare, the hyperbole, the resilience, are all part of her art. I hope more people would understand her work as more than just cute insta-moments. A graphic novel is a very fitting format to tell her story, and the author did a wonderful job.
4381	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thank you edelweiss+ for the DRC in exchange of a honest review.
4382	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	The illustrations in this slender biography of Kusama are glorious!
4383	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama has always been one of my favorite artists. The artwork in this graphic novel mirrors that of Yayoi Kusama's. It was a great read getting to know and understand her history.
4384	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	gorgeous art, you will fall in love with the illustrations  r t c ~
4385	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama’s inner fire is captured beautifully with Macellari’s graphic aesthetic.
4386	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Fascinating. An interesting read. Honestly, I wasn't very familiar with this artist, but I definitely want to look into her work now.
4387	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Simple story. Beautifully drawn.
4389	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A great overall view of the artist’s life told through a comic format. A great addition to my artist biography collection.
4390	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	great, heady art that succinctly relates the summary of kusama's life.
4392	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Review coming in December
4393	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Well done introductory biography for adults about the famous artist Yayoi Kusama. Appealing artwork in red, white, black, teal, and some lavender. 
4394	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Excellent. I did not really know her history. She is an amazing artist. I hope someday to see an exhibit. 
4395	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	3.5 stars. Beautiful panels and a few spreads that do justice to Kusama's art.
4396	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This book wasn’t for me. I finished it because I was already into it and it was a quick read.
4397	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A good introduction if you don’t know much about Kusama, and a beautifully rendered depiction if you’re already a fan.
4398	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	popsugar 2021 - fewer than 1000 reviews on Amazon or Goodreads
4401	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I don’t think it’s always easy depicting an artists life. A graphic novel worked with this artist. There was so much to portray that was interwoven. 
4402	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Very interesting graphic novel. Love the art and so investing of learning more. 
4403	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	It was an interesting biography.
4404	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Love the surrealist approach. Love the artist 
4405	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	It was a little weird but the artist is interesting. 
4407	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I have been enjoying graphic novel style books about artists and this was no exception. Maybe I'll make my own someday.
4408	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautifully illustrated mini read about the artist Kusama. It will definitely make you want to learn more. 
4411	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	So beautiful, concise and masterly constructed. I’ve fallen more in love with Kusama. I was moved to tears in the end. It is so so beautiful.
4413	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	The drawings are beautiful but unfortunately I didn't feel like I came away knowing much about Kusama. This is more like a light entrée than a main meal.
4414	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Its not a very detailed biographic novel but a very detailed graphic novel. 
4415	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautiful illustrations and a good accompaniment to the documentary. It did feel like storyline was sacrificed a little.
4416	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A wonderful portrait!
4417	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Revolutionary artist. I learned things about her I didn't know. Interesting. 
4418	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Loved everything about this book and her life. I wanted more detailed stories though, I couldn’t get enough. 
4420	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A good introduction to the life of Yayoi Kusama. The illustrations are magical, and they capture the originality of Kusama, herself. An interesting read that is both informative and poetic. 
4421	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	It lacks her yonger years and a lot of her most important work 
4423	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This book absolutely blew my mind. I stand her mouth open, that was an incredible biography! This. Ok actually made me understand more then just art. 🤯
4424	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautifully drawn but too brief.
4425	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Story didn't appeal to me much, had a few awkward turns. Artwork is good.
4426	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A lovely and accessible introduction to a very cool artist. 
4428	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Really beautifully written and constructed. 
4429	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	EXCELLENT! crazy beautiful , stirring , I love her and I love me and I love that art has power 
4430	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Been to her exhibits a handful of times in the last 8 years. 10/10 recommend.
4431	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A beautifully-drawn tribute to a fascinating and singular artist. 
4432	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I liked the art style, it really complimented Yayoi Kusama's art. I found the writing (possibly the translation) to be a bit dull, and the book felt incomplete with how it ended quite suddenly.
4434	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	3.5 stars. The story was very birds eye view of Kusama's life, but I enjoyed the artwork.
4435	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A lovely book ....the paper ,colours ....everything about it is gorgeous .My favourite Graphic Novel of 2022 ......so far.
4436	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Cute, but short.
4439	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Such gorgeous art
4441	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautiful graphic novel about Yayoi Kusama's early influences and experimentations with performance art. I would have loved if there was a bit more about info on what diagnosis the doctors gave her. 
4442	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Love Kusama and I loved the artistic style of the art! Win win!!
4443	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautiful graphic novel! I had no idea about Kusama as an artist
4444	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautiful art. Interesting biography on her life. Quick. Beautiful. 
4447	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Got to see a Kusama exhibit at MFAH and was excited to read this and learn more about her. Very beautiful and interesting graphic novel.
4448	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A skeletal view of the artist’s life.
4450	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	beautiful interpretation of her work. traditional, linear plot of her work and life. nothing new no surprises but definitely worth staring at.
4453	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I love Kusama so I was very excited about this one. While I loved the drawings, the writing didn't do it for me -- it didn't flow too well. Still a pretty good start to the year.
4454	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I love the illustration style and I appreciate this graphic biography for acquainting me with the life of Yayoi Kusama, but I wish it was longer and dwelt deeper.
4456	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	2. It’s alright. The illustrations are nice, but I think readers have to know something about Kusama before going in for it to all make sense.
4457	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I never knew so much stuff about Kusama! exchanging quips with Andy Warhol about him stealing her models?!? Sounds like she was the true icon. This book made me want to know much more. 
4458	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I learned things but wasn’t moved …the art was intriguing but the narrative style was sketchy. I’d like to see more of Macellari’s work.
4459	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Such vivid and amazing illustrations and story! Loved it!  The Unglitch.io www.unglitch.io
4460	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Such a beautiful little taste of Kusama and/by Elisa Macellari.
4461	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Interesting quick read, enjoyed the art. Still left me curious about her life because the story was limited. 
4462	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautifully crafted and drawn. I recently saw one of Kusama’s mirrored exhibits and a polkadot pumpkin and had to pick up Marellari’s graphic novel. Glad I did.
4463	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Super fun graphic novel, just wish it was longer and went into greater detail. Quick read though. 
4464	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I LOVED IT !!! Being a Kusama fan I adored this comic graphic ! It was a pleasure to read, I felt everything so deep down. 
4465	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	haven’t read a graphic novel in a while so this was fun! just as eclectic as kusama herself 
4466	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	MPA ratings: R for graphic sexuality and nudity, and maybe for other things ... DNF
4467	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I feel arty just thinking about Kusama.
4468	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I loved this! I did not know much about Yayoi Kusama before reading this and found it pretty fascinating and the art in the book was cool too
4469	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Grabbed to complete biography square in book bingo, this graphic novel is translated from Italian and provides a surreal look at the life and work of Yayoi Kusama
4470	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This graphic novel was beautifully illustrated and it had an unique style in storytelling about the artist of Yayoi Kusama. I finished this book in a day. 10 / 10. 
4471	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama is a very simple and interesting biography of Yayoi Kusama's life. I wish it had gone more in depth and had more about her everyday life.
4472	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	it was fine.
4473	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	So beautiful and very touching. Kusama’s deep desire to create, her fragile mental health, turbulent familial life and an ever changing audience is playfully explored in this graphic novel. 
4474	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"""... How do you feel about death?"" ""It doesn't scare me. Not even a bit... It's like walking into another room."""
4475	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	The art style is superb but the tone of some passages feel as if the author is judging Kusama. Other passages (particularly those about Kusama's health) feel as if they glamorize mental illness in a way that makes me uncomfortable. Ocassionally it's hard to discern if the author is providing the reader with her own thoughts or if they belong to Kusama.
4476	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This book was lovely but in some ways felt a bit cursory. I was left wanting more. The illustrations were beautiful and I learned more about Kusama's life (admittedly, I knew very little to begin with) but it felt quite short and high-level. Thinking about looking up other auto/biographies to learn more.
4477	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thanks to NetGalley for sending me an ARC of this comic book. The illustrations and color palette were reminiscent of Kusama’s own work. The timeline hopped around a bit but was clear enough. It is a short and condensed telling of the artist’s life’s highlights- I think it excels as a great introduction to Yayoi Kusama.
4478	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Thank you Netgalley for letting me read this book in return for an honest review.  Kusama is a great graphic novel about the artist, Yayoi Kusama. I had heard of the artist but never really delved into her work, so this was a great book to read to learn about her story as well as seeing her art and style in the graphic novel. The graphic novel shows the story of Kusama from being young to older, it shows the relationship between Kusama and her parents as well as friends and other artists such as Andy Warhol and Joseph Cornell. It also explores her mental health and art.  It was a very interesting and visually stunning graphic novel that I will more than likely read several times and recommend to friends.  Rating- 4⭐
4479	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This is the first graphic novel I have read in years and years. I picked it up after a trip to the National Gallery of Australia, which featured an installation by Kusama that was so delightful.  I was immediately drawn to the book by the art on the cover, a good sign with a graphic novel. And it didn't disappoint, the illustrations were absolutely gorgeous. The colour choices were stunning and the simple line work compelling and expressive; I'm sure I will flick through this book many times for art inspiration in the future.  It was fascinating to learn more about Kusama's origin and her work in the 1960s and '70s. I thought the author weaved Kusama's Japanese background and her considerable career together quite well, although I was left wanting more about her work and approach to creating. It may have been my naive eye to the genre, but some scene transitions weren't clear to me and I had to read some pages a few times to get what was going on, and sometimes I just moved on a little confused but enjoying the art regardless. I also wasn't entirely sure why some scenes were flashbacks and some were chronological tellings of her fareer. I enjoyed the way Kusama's mental health struggles were illustrated, and woven throughout this celebration of her life, as well as her atypical approach to sex and connection.  Overall I enjoyed this graphic novel and would recommend it to those not familiar with the genre (like me) who have seen Kusama's art. It was interesting and beautiful to look at, and I liked getting the context for the artist after walking amongst her work.
4480	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Presenting Yayoi Kusama's life in graphic novel form is the perfect way to tell the famous Japanese artist’s story. Having seen her work, both in Japan and in the United States, I loved getting to know more about her childhood and her drive to create art that is rooted in both Eastern and Western cultures. Elisa Macellari's art is bold and immersive, reflecting Kusama's vivid imagination, especially through the use of her famous red dots which appear in various iterations throughout the book. After breaking with her family in Japan, Kusama moves to New York, where she continues to struggle with mental health issues as she finds her artistic voice through experimentation and performance art and forges unique friendships with famous American artists. This is a vibrant, informative graphic novel that will delight art lovers and fans of Kusama's work. Thank you so Laurence King Publishing at NetGalley for the review copy.  Please listen to episode #31 of my book recommendation podcast, Books Are My People to learn more about this book!
4481	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I loved Macelarri's art in this book - it was delicate but expressive, and the use of colour was particularly meticulous. The art also complimented Kusama's own work, subtly changing alongside the developing styles of Kusama's work across time - a tricky balance to achieve when creating a graphic biography. I found the book to be most effective when documenting the progression of Kusama's work, and its reception. I went into the book only knowing Kusama's more recent work, and knowing very little about her as person, and I perhaps would have liked a bit more insight into her actual life - the work is paid much more attention here than the everyday. This could also be my own tastes however - I'm much more prone to reading graphic autobiographies. This is an insightful read, and gorgeous to simply appreciate visually - I would recommend to anyone who wants to learn more about Yayoi Kusama, though I may be tracking down her own autobiography to get a bit more detail. Thank you to Laurence King Publishing and Netgalley for the ARC.
4482	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This is a quick read for anybody who wants to know about Yayoi Kusama or is already a fan of her art.
4485	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	a short and sweet biographic about yayoi kusama and it was beaaaautiful! the art, the writing. i do wish it went a lil deeper into her life tho
4486	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	5/5 for the artwork, but as longtime fan of Kusama, I had hoped the text would go a bit more in-depth than it did.
4487	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Shamefully, I had never heard of Yayoi Kusama before picking up this book. It was a great intro to the artist and her works, and I’m inspired to learn more.
4488	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	i love her brain and i love her art. 
4489	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A pretty cool visual biography of Yayoi Kusama, from her difficult childhood and her artist/activist years in New York, to her return to Japan and struggle with mental health. I learned a lot about this artist and would recommend!
4491	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama by Elisa Macellari is a unique graphic novel that portrays the life of a Japanese artist named Yayoi Kusuma. What I found intriguing is the art in which Kusuma's feelings, troubles and her sense of activism are captured in a peculiar form of illustrations and colours. The book is not suitable for children. However, anyone who wants to read about women who have impacted the world with their art should get this. I did find a bit hard to understand a few perspectives, but then, I wasn't acquainted with who Yayoi Kusuma is before I read the novel. Overall, it is a good read if you are interested in knowing about the artist, her art and activism after moving to America from Japan.
4492	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	The art in this was amazing!  … but the story of her life and career seemed far too brief. I felt like I was reading a bullet-point list of random facts, rather than a chronological story. I wish it went a little more in-depth and showed more context.  Despite my criticism of the story, I would still say it’s worth a read just to experience the art and learn a little art history.
4494	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	*2.5 stars rounded up This Graphic novel has some gorgeous artwork in it, but the writing was lacking. It was not a thorough biography at all. It felt more like an illustrated Wikipedia article than an actual biography. The cliff note version of Kusama's life, and she deserves better.
4495	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Beautifully illustrated quick look at a complicated life of an artist. I'm struggling for where to put this in my 5th-12th grade library as there is nudity, as well as performance pieces that included public orgies.
4496	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	"I managed to bag a copy of this via NetGalley, which rules because I've been a fan of Kusama for some time now and have never really read up about her life (terrible, I know).  As far as a biography goes, it does a really great job of detailing her ""origin story"" to better understand her life as an artist, and who she is today. I had no idea she was friends with Dalí as well as Georgia O'Keefe!! It makes so much sense though!!  The book also gave me a new understanding of her mental health and how it has affected her work, which is something I knew a little about before, and now after learning more about her history I have a greater appreciation for her work.  I definitely recommend this book to anyone who has been to one of her countless installations around the world! She truly is more than just a 'dotty' artist.  ""No pain could ever discourage me. It's how I was born and how I have lived; it's how I'll continue to live."""
4497	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama is the biography in the form of a graphic novel, based on the life of world famous painter, sculptor and novelist - Yayoi Kusama. Throughout this book, Elisa Macellari has displayed her love and respect for the artist and her work. The author has told the life story of Kusama in an interesting way with the help of beautiful illustrations  Before reading this book, I wasn't aware of Yayoi Kusama and her work and I would like to thank the author for introducing me to the work and life journey of Kusama.  The illustrations in the book are breathtaking. The book narrates the inspiring life story and struggles of Kusama from the time she was a little girl to the artist she is today. The book also covers the various mental disorders the artist had to go through and it is explained beautifully.  The book will make you fall in love with Yayoi Kusama and her inspiring life story. It is sure a treat for every art lover out there.
4498	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Art can be tricky to understand at the best of times. With so many different interpretations and meanings being presented, it's hard to know which writings to follow. Personally I connect better with an artist's work by getting to know more about the artist and their creative process.  Kusama has some incredible notable works such as her infinity room installations and her famous passion for dots. By getting to know her life and influences in this beautifully simple colour palette of a graphic novel, I have new love and appreciation for her work. The subtle nods to Japanese design throughout the book and the delicate attention to detail in even the smallest of images enrich her story even more.  I would love to see an entire series on contemporary artists in such a thoughtful and accessible format.
4500	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	A wonderful graphic novel biography of my favourite living Japanese artist, Yayoi Kusama. As befitting her style, the images are packed with colours, but behind the bright facade there are darker overtones as her life story unfolds, detailing her struggles with mental health, the expectations of her role as a woman in Japanese culture, her time spent in the art scene of NYC, and ultimately her success as a global cultural icon. This was a fascinating read, and I learnt a lot about Kusama's life - previously I only really knew of her art. The illustrations are really excellent and a fitting tribute to the lady herself. Highly recommended.
4501	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Kusama is an artist that should not be forgotten. She put so much effort it to the movements of her time as she is understood truly what it was to have no place for free love & expression. This brief bio-pic (ehhh eh?! Bio PIC am I right? ) really express the essentials of what made this artist. Using Kusama's pieces as inspiration there are far to many memorable panels in this graphic novel. It loses points primarily for being a primer, or a good glaze over the wikipedia of Kusama. It's left me wanting so much more but most likely that was what was intended.
4502	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This beautifully made graphic novel made me know Kusama well without the gruelling task of reading her thick biography. It reminds us that she is the original pop art icon, even earlier than Warhol. It detailed her long forgotten stint in NYC before she went back to Japan as the Kusama we know today. I just wish that the book tackled more of her works and artistic progression. Macellari is a brilliant storyteller as shown in her texts and illustrations.
4503	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	This is a great insight into the artist Yayoi Kasama. Many people may be familiar with this artist because of the distinct trend she started in the 1960 and 70's. The artists struggle with mental illness, family values, culture, and art are very relatable.This is a short graphic novel of her art and life, there are more in depth books. This is a great introduction of who was Yayoi Kasama.
4504	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I first heard of Yayoi Kusama when I visited one of her infinity rooms at the Tampa Museum of Art. Since then, her style and life have fascinated me. This graphic novel was beautifully written and illustrated to tell the story of Kusama in a style that is true to her. I absolutely love it and would recommend it to anyone who wants an introduction to Kusama.
4505	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	In this graphic novel, you'll get a look into Yayoi Kusasma's life and creative practice, particularly intertwined with mental health. Illustrations are clean and sweet, while also remaining a separate entity from Kusama's work. 
4506	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	The art is absolutely stunning, and incorporates metaphors and a bit of surrealism to really capture the essence of the story. The narration of Kusama's biography is done with great care and sensitivity. 
4507	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	I really enjoyed the art and illustrations in this graphic novel. The art is absolutely beautiful and is by far my favorite part of this novel. I didn't not enjoy the story, or the telling of Yayoi Kusama, but it wasn't necessarily my favorite.
4508	Kusama:_The_Graphic_Novel	Note: I accessed a digital review copy of this book through Edelweiss.
4510	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	A biographical comic of Joe Shuster and Jerry Seigel, the creators of Superman, based on other stories and articles. It's a pretty thorough retelling of their lives and how DC (National Comics at the time) screwed them over for 37 years before finally settling on giving them an annual retirement stipend and byline for Superman.
4511	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	In addition to being slightly bored, I became increasingly uneasy as I read this graphic novel due to the liberties being taken with some of the facts. It wasn't until I hit the end notes that there was a statement declaring this a work of fiction. That seems a little late in the game to be making such a reveal about a work that otherwise presents itself as a biography.  Anyhow, Joe Shuster is presented as a spineless sad sack, a buoy bouncing in Jerry Siegel's wake and hopelessly becalmed without him. He's so dull, the author keeps going off on tangents and in the end tells a broader story about the comic book industry as a whole just to have something to do, I suppose. There's not a lot new here for someone familiar with the real history except some rumor mongering, dream sequences, and other flights of fancy and fiction.
4513	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	With Superman's 80th anniversary of the first issue of Action Comics featuring Clark Kent aka Superman being published, a good way to celebrate that is with remembering the talents of Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, two nice Jewish boys who created Superman, wrote, and drew him respectively. Most comic and Superman fans instantly know who they are. I'm thankful that they had Superman use his abilities for good. Cool cover, both Action Comics #1 and The Joe Shuster Story. The book covers a lot, happy times and tragic times. It's easy to see that lot of research went into the book. One of my favorite parts is when Joe Shuster's mom let him borrow her bread board for a drawing board and when it was time to bake challah for the weekly Shabbat meal, he gave it back so she could do that. I love details like that.  May Superman/Clark Kent continue always to fight for truth, justice and the American way. :) You can check out my entire review @ Hardy and Drew Mysteries
4515	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	"Everyone knows Superman, but not everyone knows the story of two youngsters from Cleveland who created Superman. Based on archival material and original sources, ""Truth, Justice, and the American Way: The Joe Shuster Story"" tells the story of the friendship between writer Jerry Siegel and illustrator Joe Shuster, and puts it into the wider context of the American comicbook industry.  I was fortunate to find this graphic novel at the library in the literary graphic novel section. I had no expectations going in, but was encouraged by the 4 star rating on goodreads. Well, I finished it in one sitting. In my backyard with a cup of coffee in one hand, the book in the other and the sun on my face. I now realize how little I actually knew about Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. All my previous knowledge came from the biography, ""Superman: The High-Flying History of America's Most Enduring Hero"" written by Larry Tye. However, that was focused more on the fictional character of Superman than their real life creators. This biography/graphic novel focuses on the life of Joe Schuster. His upbringing in Toronto, his move to Cleveland, his friendship with Jerry and their creation of the world's greatest superhero. Like so many struggling artists, they were rejected over and over, only finding success once they had signed away the rights of their intellectual property. It's sad that the character would go on to sell millions of comics, star in radio, TV and film, yet Jerry and Joe wouldn't see a dime of that money. It was only when ""Superman: The Movie"" came out, that Jerry and Joe finally had their by-line restored. This biography also does an effective job illustrating the changes that occured in the comics industry, especially after the end of World War II. Including the inquiry into the comics industry after the publication of ""Seduction of the Innocent"" by Frederic Wertham, the creation of the ""Comics Code Authority"" and the rise of Marvel Comics. Overall a great read and excellent artwork that feels very suitable for the time period. I agree with the bulk of goodreads members and give this a 4 star rating. I would definitely recommend it to anyone interested in Joe Shuster, the history of Superman and the comics industry. "
4516	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	"I bought this graphic novel because of the beautiful illustrations and read it because of the true life story. The first superhero conception, the tale of two friends, the lost love, the life disappointments and the final resolution are ""artfully"" told (no pun intended).  Besides the talent of the illustrator/storyteller, what struck me most was how often artwork is stolen and credit is not given to the artist. Copyrights are an ideal in concept but often more is needed to ensure credit for the work is given to the rightful owner. My friends and colleagues have had their work stolen. I found one of my photographs being used to sell puzzles on a website myself. When contacted, they took it down.  Gorgeously illustrated and remarkably sad story that I previously knew little about. Definitely worth reading.  4 big stars"
4518	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	This is a fairly straightforward, well-researched biography of the artist Joe Shuster, who was the co-originator of the Superman character (along with writer Jerry Siegel). Rather famously, while very young and enthusiastic they signed away all the rights to their creation for a pittance.  Maybe I'm just too familiar with the story already, and that may be why this book didn't thrill me. I've even read Secret Identity: The Fetish Art of Superman's Co-Creator Joe Shuster —which delves into a desperate side story, after being fired by the publisher he helped enrich, Shuster produced fetish drawings on the sly.  Lawsuits that dragged on for years are mentioned. Family life is also in the deep background.  Despite the quality of this production, I was disappointed by the sloppy lettering: there were numerous printer's errors and typos.  3.5 stars rounded down because of the typos.
4519	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	A wonderful, if a bit dry, recounting of creative injustice and eventual truth.
4522	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Voloj and Campi have done a tremendous job encapsulating Joe Shuster's early life, early success, and later struggles for recognition (and, really, Siegel, whose more dominant personality overwhelms Shuster's at times here). In fact, a lot of this book is really the history of the comics industry, as seen by Joe Shuster. Lots of good details. Lots of great artwork too. I do wish we could've gotten more personal details on Joe's life after losing Superman. There has to be a little bit more to his later years than sitting around without money and feeling sad about Superman.  Advance PDF.
4526	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Not much of a story and not enough stuff about the actual like creation and writing/drawing of superman.
4529	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Joe Shuster is kind of the forgotten one of the duo that created the most well known superhero of all time. Most likely because Jerry Siegel was so outspoken and Joe was very quiet. So, it's nice to read more of Joe's story, especially in comic book form. The story of both is truly heartbreaking but Joe's is, in my opinion, much sadder. Losing his eyesight so early in life that he wasn't even able to continue in the industry he loved. That he and Jerry, arguably, created. The girl he liked marrying Jerry. And the way he was treated so many times by the ones in charge is so infuriating. Having the dream of drawing comics myself, being quiet and non-confrontational, I feel a certain connection to Joe. Which makes his story hit me right in the heart. Thank you Joe.
4530	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Fascinating. I had heard a couple of theories behind what inspired the superman story, but I had no idea about all the issues the creators had for getting credit. I am so glad I read this book because now I will always try to figure out who created comics or figures. I'm sure if I were to delve even deeper I will be flabbergasted by all the injustices, which is fairly ironic since that's the thing about comic book heroes- that they help with the injustices of the world. I heard there's another good story about Batman, too, which was alluded to in this book. I may have to read that one (Bill the Boy Wonder)
4531	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	4.5 rounded to 5. Moving story of one of the most important figures in comics, how he tried to make peace with the grave mistreatments he suffered, and how he found humanity in the work he was doing.
4533	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	This is a sad , important story, well documented. Read the end notes of this well done graphic biography. Jerry Siegel, writer, and Joe Shuster, artist, the world owed you better than the raw deal for Action Comics #1 and your creation of Superman. I first saw Siegel & Schuster in Jules Feiffer's 1960s anthology and memoir, The Great Comicbook Superheroes. It took decades to get them a better deal, illustrated here. I remember, though I learned a lot here. Read this. Recommended.
4534	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Reading this tragic biography of the Superman co-creator makes me feel guilty to ever read another Superman story again. Sadly, the mistreatment of comic creators by big business publishers is not unusual.  I did research on Shuster and this book seems authentic and well researched. As Shuster was once also a Torontonian, I enjoyed learning about his life, as well as the creation of the first true superhero and an industry that I love (again making me feel guilty for how someone so pivotal was so badly treated). I enjoyed the overall mentions of the industry and similar exploitation (e.g. such as Bob Kane cheating Batman co-creator Bill Finger out of credit and income and the Comics Code Authority).  Unfortunately, this biography pretty much only shows the many sad events in Shuster's life - exploitation at the hands of DC comics, disability (blindness), poverty (briefly homeless and perpetually broke), betrayal by friends (Siegel steals his girlfriend and remains alone his whole life), and recognition that came mostly posthumously (such as Canada's Shuster awards). I don't want the authors to tack on insincere events to make the readers feel good, but I would like to have had some sense that Shuster's life wasn't one sad thing after another.  The artwork is incredibly beautiful and captured the era for me quite well. Overall, I'm really impressed by this work and think that anyone who is a fan of graphic literature should read this to get a sense of the contributions of those who created this form.
4537	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	"I didn't realise that this is a full-on graphic novel about Joe Shuster and Jerry Siegel, the creators of Superman. My dear wife picked it up at the library, thinking it would interest me -- she was right!  The story is told from Joe Shuster's (the illustrator) point of view. Indeed, I believe other editions of the book are called ""The Joe Shuster Story"".  It's certainly interesting to take a dip into the past and see how the whole superhero genre began -- according to this tale, at least. It ends up being a cautionary tale of creators being taken advantage of by greedy publishers and corporations.  It's nicely drawn but the writing is a little stilted and could use some editing. I am quite a pedant, but whilst it's true that ""sound affects"", it's not the right phrase when talking about the noises accompanying a radio play. I'm afraid I find that kind of thing annoying.  Still, an interesting an enjoyable package overall."
4540	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Beautiful color work. Interesting story
4541	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	What better way to tell the story of Superman’s creation than in graphic novel form? That’s what Papercutz have done with a script by Julian Voloj and lovely, simple art by Thomas Campi. ‘The Joe Shuster Story’ starts with Shuster as an old man sleeping on a park bench and being woken up by a policeman who takes him for a meal. Then it’s a flashback to Joe’s mother and aunt leaving Russia because of Pogroms and moving to Amsterdam on the way to Toronto, Canada. In Amsterdam, they met their husbands and Joe was born in Toronto. Later, they moved to Cleveland.  Joe’s father was a good tailor but a bad businessman, so they kept having to move when they couldn’t pay the rent. This seems to have been very common back then as Harpo Marx in his excellent autobiography ‘Harpo Speaks’ recounts the same tale of woe. His dad was a tailor, too. Jerry Siegel’s father was also a tailor but better at business and has his own shop, which is nice until he gets robbed one day and killed.  Eventually, Joe Shuster met Jerry Siegel on the school newspaper. Joe likes to draw and Jerry likes to write and they both love pulp Science Fiction magazines. Jerry submitted stories to the magazines but kept getting rejections, so they mimeographed their own magazine, with drawings by Joe called ‘Science Fiction: The Advance Guard Of Future Civilization’. Jerry was mad about a girl called…wait for it, wait for it…Lois! She was not so hot on him.  Failing to get into pulp magazines, they tried pulp comics, an industry in its infancy. They got some work for Major Malcolm Wheeler-Nicholson of New Fun Comics. He was keen to take lots of their work but not so keen on paying, an old story in publishing. Joe Shuster let Jerry Siegel handle the business side of things. Sheldon Mayer, who worked for the Major, was interested in ‘Superman’ and commissioned a 13-page story just as the Major’s company was bought out by National Periodicals, what would one day be DC Comics. The contract for that first story was in small print on the back of the cheque. It’s shown at the bottom of page 81, selling the 13 pages and all rights to the character for $130.00. Ah, the small print. I bet they didn’t even read it.  Superman was an astounding success and created a whole new genre: superheroes! People with super-powers who fought crime in big cities dressed in tight costumes and had a secret civilian identity as well. Copycat creations followed with variations on this theme and Siegel didn’t like them. He had a particular hatred for Batman. He was also jealous of Simon and Kirby’s deal for a percentage of profits on Captain America at Timely, though it turned out they didn’t do as well as expected.  Publishers were not the most honest people in those days. Harry Donenfield started with a family printing business but used his delivery trucks for other purposes during Prohibition. Then he published pornography but got someone else to take the rap. In payment, ‘Herbie’, as he was known, had a job for life at DC doing nothing. Siegel and Shuster had jobs working on the Superman strips and were well paid but owned nothing. Eventually, this began to gall Siegel in particular and he decided to fight for ownership. He was hoping that other creators would join him, lawyers being expensive, but Bob Kane made a new deal for Batman and backed out. Siegel and Shuster lost the case. Then the creators of the super-hero industry struggled to make a living, especially Joe as his eyesight was failing.  A great little book. In an age when superheroes are the biggest sensation at the box office, it is sometimes forgotten that they sprang from humble four-colour comic-strips and the origin story of the very first super-hero and still one of the biggest is surely of interest to any comic fan. The fact that it’s told in the form of a comic makes it even better and the simplicity of the art, almost like a 1930s comic, is appropriate. I’m glad someone did this, and did it so well, too. Hats off to Julian Voloj and Thomas Campi.  Eamonn Murphy
4543	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	"The Joe Shuster Story: The Artist Behind Superman is a biographical graphic novel written by Julian Voloj and illustrated by Thomas Campi, which is a concise biography of Joe Shuster – the artistic creator of Superman.  Joseph Shuster was a Canadian-American comic book artist best known for co-creating the DC Comics character Superman, with writer Jerry Siegel, in Action Comics #1.  In this nostalgic biography of golden age comics artist Joe Shuster, the magnitude of what he created and lost hangs over every page. In 1938, National Comics paid writer Jerry Siegel and artist Shuster $130 for the rights to their character Superman, a casual exploitation of two naive creators that critics and fans would eventually dubbed ""comics' original sin.""  As a young cartoonist, Shuster meets Siegel and the two bonds over comic books, pulp sci-fi, and their shared background in the working-class Jewish community. When Superman becomes a phenomenon and the foundation of a blockbuster new genre, Siegel and Schuster resent making pennies while their publishers rake in millions.  The Joe Shuster Story: The Artist Behind Superman is written and constructed rather well. This harsh history is softened by Campi's art, drawn in the reassuring style of mid-century magazine illustration and illuminated with jewel-like watercolors. The art lends warmth and beauty to this elegy to two kids chewed up by a system that sees dollar signs and goes in for the kill.  All in all, The Joe Shuster Story: The Artist Behind Superman is a wonderful biographical graphic novel, that portrayed the life of Joel Shuster – co-creator of Superman."
4544	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	 One of the greatest comic book characters ever created is Superman, the character alone is a billion dollar enterprise. This icon was created by two young men named Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, with Siegel doing the storylines and Shuster the artwork. Their original work was done during the depth of the Depression in the United States and at first they struggled to get the character published. Almost unknown is how much the Superman character evolved until they finally arrived on the origin from the planet Krypton.  For decades, Siegel and Shuster received very little compensation for their creation of Superman, not even an acknowledgement that they created the character. It was only in the 1970’s that they began getting credit, both textual and financial for their creation of Superman. The success of the first Superman movie starring Christopher Reeve was the impetus for Warner Brothers to finally acknowledge that Siegel and Shuster deserved additional compensation for their creation.  As the title suggests, this graphic novel is largely about Joe Shuster and his struggles, although there is much about Siegel as well. It is a story of the creative energy of youth, being forced to sell for what was a pittance, being denied credit and finally receiving acknowledgement of their achievement.  This graphic novel should be read by all people interested in the history of comics, including those that are considering making it a career. There is an enormous amount of talent in the comic book industry, yet, as this book shows, that is not enough in order to succeed. It takes a bit of business cynicism as well and in some cases, decades of persistence. 
4547	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Satisfying telling of the origin of Superman and the two creators behind the iconic character. The use of the comic book format to tell the story was an appropriate choice. Format and subject matter matched well.  The life story of Shuster was bookended with different time periods with the retelling of his life in between told as a reflection. This made it a little more creative, although the book was pretty much a straight forward telling of his life.  What's really good here was the art. The biographical portion was rendered in a soft, painterly style that evoked the feel of a memory. The bookends were done with black ink lines, a traditional comic book art, providing a different tone to indicate a different time period.  The story was actually interesting. Always fun to see how something popular is born. The story was also a precautionary tale on how to deal with your creations. Sad that the creators suffered so much while others profited immensely from their labor. Own your creations and art everyone. Better to work for yourself, instead of the man.  This book is a quick, enjoyable read I would recommend for fans of Superman and superheroes in general. Also for creators who need to be reminded on the importance of ownership and the business side of your work.
4548	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	It was very interesting to discover how Superman was created and how his creators were cheated by the editors because of the first contract. The US atmosphere of this area was well depicted, so there was an historical side I quite enjoyed. It was also interesting to learn about the beginning of the comic book industry, especially as Superman really helped to launch it. The references to other persons in the industry (Bob Kane seemed to be a nice guy...) and super heroes helped to shape the story, as the mention of some of the events happening at this time (like wars or the rise of violence amoung the youngs). The art was pleasant and worked nicely during all the read. I'm not a non fiction reader but this graphic novel was compelling and read in one sitting, even if the tone was mostly sad.
4550	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	I’ve got into a comic book history mood today. I bought this book a while back, but it has sat on my bookshelf for at least a year. I am glad that I finally read it.  This is, at it’s most basic form, a biography. However, this is also a story about friendship and how these two men navigate the cutthroat industry of comic books (as it was then, anyway). We see how their creative endeavors are challenged, their friendship tested, and how despite their betrayals to each other, these men still remained friends and had deep respect for each other.  Going into this, I knew virtually nothing about either Joe Schuster or Jerry Siegel. I am happy to have become acquainted with their story, and the world is better for them inspiring so many with Superman.
4556	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	This is a phenomenal graphic novel about Joe Schuster. It covers his life and career up to the point where he and Superman's other creator, Jerry Siegel receive lifetime pensions from the corporate owners of Superman, Time-Warner, Inc., during the preparations for the release of Superman: The Motion Picture.  This is a well-researched story about Joe Schuster. It is a highly recommended take
4557	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	I love that this is done as a graphic novel, as befits the subject. The scholarship is sound and you really get a sense of the man and his story. Also appreciate the recognition of cousin Frank, whose work I was familiar with long before Joe's.
4558	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	On one side arguably one of the most recognizable characters of the modern world, on the other the miserable life of their creators. This very well written and terrifically drawn graphic novel brings the story of Jerry Siegel and, mainly, Joe Shuster.
4559	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	The art is conscientious, I very much liked the style. I've read a fair bit about Siegel and Shuster, and learned more here. It gave a good sense of the time in history and the ups and downs of solid friendships. It was a pleasure to read.
4561	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	I typically get bored hearing details about old dude cartoonists, but this felt informative and interesting and relevant to me. Also just killer coloring and texture, idk, it pulled me through the dry details very well
4562	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	There's a lot to learn here, even for lifelong comic book fans who thought they might've known everything. Might be a dull read for people who aren't classic comic fans but if you love the superhero genre at all this is an excellent window into how that genre got started. 
4563	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Mostly boring and not really well suited to the medium. There’s lots of detailed notes at the back if you make it there. They neglected to note that at the beginning. Also ends abruptly as if it’s a happy ending but Shuster still had issues after getting that stipend and byline and died in debt. 
4564	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Boy! There are tons of these comic biographies these days and most of them are pretty poorly done (Logicomics etc being the exceptions) but not this one. This book is a sympathetic and well told tale which deepened what I already knew. Simply, this is one of the best. 
4565	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	A riveting and bittersweet tale of the true creators of Superman and how they were denied the opportunity to profit as much as perhaps they could have. I appreciate the research the author did and the accompanying footnotes.
4567	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Beautiful in its truth of injustice. Devastating, anger-inducing, and a powerful lesson for professional creatives everywhere. 
4570	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Not a fan of Superman, but this book was very interesting and well-researched. Great art and layout as well. 
4571	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Graphic novel biography of Joe Shuster, the artist who created Superman Author note states it is meticulously researched fiction Graphic novel fans will enjoy it.
4572	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Comics’ll break your heart. 
4577	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	I know this was supposed to be an uplifting story about how they eventually won, but all I can see is the years of heartbreak and betrayal. Utterly heart breaking. 
4578	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	This was amazing. I don't even like DC Comics and Superman but wow. Fantastic retelling of Joe and Jerry's story. The illustrations were beautiful.
4580	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Very good story and pictures 
4581	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	 A good and quick bio on one of Superman's creators Joe Shuster. Since he was a comic artist, it seems fititng to have his bio as a graphic novel. 
4582	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Excellent read!! If you are interested in the backstory of Joe Shuster and the creative duo behind Superman, check out this book. 
4584	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	A fun and interesting graphic novel biography. This is the perfect medium to tell the story of one of the artists who invented the comic book. This is a great read for any fan of history or Superman.
4585	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	I still need to read the letter and the notes
4590	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	A beautiful homage! We think life is fair and square but it wasn't with the creator and illustrator of my favourite super hero:Superman. Thank God justice was made in the end, not what they really deserved, but justice nonetheless. If you like Superman you shouldn't miss this reading, if you don't you shouldn't miss this touching story.
4592	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Insightful story about the artist who created Superman. It was sadder than I had realized.
4594	The_Joe_Shuster_Story:_The_Artist_Behind_Superman	Note: I received an ARC of this book from the publisher at ALA Midwinter 2018.
4595	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	The life of Jackson Pollack told through the eyes of a CIA agent assigned to monitor Pollack. The CIA agent is fictional but the program is not. Long Leash was the program started by the CIA after World War II to promote American art as the Soviets were seen as having much more cultural influence at the time. The spy angle gave the book an interesting tilt into the life of a man who was notoriously guarded. It's a quick read for a public figure I always wondered about.  Received a review copy from Laurence King Publishing Ltd. and NetGalley. All thoughts are my own and in no way influenced by the aforementioned.
4596	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	There basically are two books here - an artist biography/overview of the life of Jackson Pollock, and a book about a ridiculous project the CIA were running, focusing greatly on Pollock.  The operation was a real thing, codenamed 'Long Leash' - the CIA saw how young lefty artists and intellectuals in America were falling for Russian 'influence', and wanted to counteract by promoting American abstract and contemporary art. The CIA could count on the help of powerful people like senator Rockefeller, who already was a great fan of abstract expressionism.  Now, here you already have me. I have a great interest in the insane (and horrifying) pretzels the various secret services of the world would twist themselves during the Cold War. The idea that the ultra-conservative CIA would promote abstract art in the 40s and 50s is mouthwateringly preposterous.  The book chooses this operation as it's focal point - a CIA agent is created, who gets the mission to tail Jackson Pollock, and eventually befriend him.  And then the book becomes more biographical, which is a hard thing to do to begin with, because Pollock was famously closeguarded and unreadable.  The two stories don't really mesh very well, neither narrative is done enough justice. After the initial shock of the CIA operation, there isn't much story left to tell.  The art is serviceable. Those hoping to see a lot of Pollock's art, will probably be disappointed. (Personally I don't have a problem with this, the book is about the person first and foremost.)  In the end, I'm not entirely sure who this book is for.  (Kindly received an ARC from Laurence King Publishing through Netgalley)
4597	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	The creator tries to spice up a pedestrian biography of the famous painter by having it narrated by a fictional CIA agent checking up on Pollock during the Cold War as part of a long leash operation to promote abstract expressionism and American culture over the Soviets.  Apparently, this is a real thing! The CIA is made up of art lovers!  But rather than delve into the history of the operation very deeply or examine the ramifications of Pollock's fame being the result of a propaganda machine, we're basically told that Pollock was talented, he was a drunk, now he is dead, and the made-up CIA spy feels bad about that.  The art is highly photo-referenced in places. Some facts seem like they are not well researched, like a conflation of the Met and MOMA into the Metropolitan Museum of Modern Art for example, though that may have been a problem with the translation from the original Italian.
4598	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	'Pollock Confidential: A Graphic Novel' with story and art by Onofrio Catacchio is an unbalanced look at the life of the famous painter.  'Operation Long Leash' was dreamed up by the CIA as a method to battle communism by promoting American abstract art. This graphic novel starts with an agent, who is fictional, working with a museum to borrow one of Pollock's works for a state-sponsored exhibit. Along the way, some biographical info is given about the painter, including his death.  I liked the framing story, but at some point that device ends, and then the book becomes more straight up bio. I wish the author had structured the story a bit better. There is an interesting afterword about the artist and notes about the writing of the story. The art is pretty good, and I like some of the interesting angles of Pollock at work.  I received a review copy of this graphic novel from Laurence King Publishing Ltd. and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review. Thank you for allowing me to review this graphic novel.
4599	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	"Originally published on my blog: Nonstop Reader.  Pollock Confidential is a graphic novel biography of a period of Jackson Pollock's life. Originally published in 2018, this English translation released 7th April 2020 by Laurence King is 112 pages and available in hardcover format.  This biography takes a look via flashbacks and interludes at Pollock's influence and interactions with the CIA during operation ""long leash"" as part of the American cultural cold war with the Soviet Union. It was a relationship of which I was previously unaware although the broad strokes of his life, battles with substance abuse, and insecurities I had already known about. A fair bit of the biography narrative is fictionalised, but the framework is there.  The art is quite good, the recognizable major players are displayed against monotone backgrounds of some of Pollock's work as well as having some of the story panels inset into color versions of his work. The art is quite good and the text translation is seamless.  Four stars. A quick, interesting, and worthwhile read.  Disclosure: I received an ARC at no cost from the author/publisher for review purposes."
4600	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	I was really delighted to the perspective of learning more about the artist, but found that the CIA backstory didn't fit that much with the subject, even if it was an historical fact... I didn't like that approach. I would have preferred to get much more insights about his personal and professional lives, as I felt that book was just an overview of it all. A linear chronology would have been great too. I wasn't fond of the art either. The positive thing is that I realized i wanna know much more about this artist!!  Thanks to NetGalley and Laurence King Publishing for this advance copy <3
4602	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	5 stars for the design and illustrations of this graphic novel. The storyline is very thin and if you already know Pollock's biography it won't add a thing to your knowledge. I've heard about the CIA promoting abstract art before now, but the book has made me wonder whether it involved anything more than simply funneling money into exhibitions. The book's CIA character is complete fiction, so I'll have to look elsewhere for information.
4603	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	An interesting graphic novel about the life of the conflicted artist Jackson Pollock told through the eyes of a CIA agent. While this agent is fictional, the historical CIA program 'Long Leash is not. This project to fund American abstract artists in order to battle communism was something I never knew about, despite having learnt about Pollock in school.  In a blend of fact and fiction, this story gave me a bigger insight into Pollock, his life, and his art. It's an enjoyable, fast read. I liked the illustrations, although I personally didn't love the colour palette.  I'd like to thank Laurence Kind Publishing and NetGalley for the opportunity to read and review this book.
4604	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	* I would like to thank NetGalley and the publisher for the opportunity to review this book. *  This biography in graphic novel form has an interesting twist. Catacchio portrays Jackson Pollock in the peak years of his fame, while he was living with Lee Krasner on Long Island. In the process he talks about Pollock's technique and how it was informed by his background.  The narrative point of view is provided by Dan, a CIA agent who moves to Long Island pretending to be working on his thesis, and seeks to cozy up to Pollock and report back on his progress. This may seem bizarre, but in fact there was a CIA operation called Long Leash that secretly backed Abstract Impressionists like Pollock with serious money, in order to dissuade American artists and art patrons from embracing Communist art. As a former cowboy from Wyoming, Pollock was the perfect unwitting front man for this clandestine operation. This was a complete revelation to me, and gives the book a very different perspective on a relatively familiar life story.
4605	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Pollock Confidential by Onofrio Catacchio is a free NetGalley e-graphic novel that I read in early May.  This is ‘Confidential’ in the sense that it's compiled to mimic a CIA anti-Communist, pro-American dossier. The government is working as an anonymous patron to Pollock and other expressionist artists during the late 1940s, so Agent Adkins (the narrator) is instructed to track him on suspicion of Communist leanings. Not long after, he loses interest in politics and decides to pay attention to Pollock's art, instead, and approaches him as a fan. From there, the palette widens from browns and blues to the full range of Pollock colors, up until his death when it dims to black and chocolate brown.
4606	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Interesting and beautiful glimpse into Jackson Pollock and his painting.. This Graphic Novel is well written from the perspective of a CIA agent attached to monitoring Pollock. The art is gorgeous (not just the Pollock paintings).  would recommend for fans of Art, history, the CIA..
4607	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	My thanks to Laurence King Publishing for a temporary digital edition via NetGalley of ‘Pollock Confidential’ by Onofrio Catacchio in exchange for an honest review.  “He danced around the canvas, rocking back and forth like a drunk or a shaman in a trance. He stopped only when he ‘felt’ he was done-and for him, in that moment, the piece was complete.” - Onofrio Catacchio.  Catacchio has framed this graphic novel about the life, work, and tragically early death of Jackson Pollock through the reminiscences of Dan Adkins, a retired C.I.A. agent, who in 1948 had been assigned to surveil Jackson Pollock and his wife, Lee Krasner while they were living on Long Island.  Agent Dan Adkins poses as a history student there to work on his thesis and he positions himself to be befriended by the couple. He is able to observe Pollock at work and listen to his stories of his upbringing and early career.  I am a huge fan of Jackson Pollock’s work and like Adkins could spend hours gazing at his paintings when I have encountered them in art museums. This was an amazing graphic novel that was informative and captured a strong sense of Pollock’s dynamic approach to his art.  Onofrio Catacchio illustrations are excellent along with his depiction of Pollock’s restless energy that was the hallmark of his splatter painting style. He uses many of Pollock’s own words throughout the work.  Although Agent Adkins is fictional, the covert operation detailed was real. I was marginally aware of the C.I.A.’s covert activities in secretly promoting Abstract Expressionism during the Cold War from my own studies of art history.  Following the text, Onofrio Catacchio provides a short list of sources and resources for Pollock’s life and details of the book that documented the C.I.A.’s weaponising of modern art during the Cold War. It’s a fascinating subject.  I would love to own the hardback edition of this graphic novel and may pick up a copy in due course.  
4608	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	I was excited going into this graphic novel, pulled in by the cover which I thought was really creative and striking, and also by the topic of covering Pollock. As a design student I studied him at points when taking art at college and so have learnt a lot about him in that short time, also watching the 2000 film and also the film, mentioned in the graphic novel, by Hans Namuth and Paul Falkenburg in 1951. Though I thought I had known a good amount about the artist I was not aware of Operation Long Leash, which the graphic novel follows. It was very intriguing to hear about, though I feel that the novel only really scratches the surface of what I was expecting to read about on this topic. The story follows an agent who watched Pollock during this time, though I was disappointed to hear he was only a character of fiction at the end of the novel. It would have been great to get a bit more information about the operation throughout the novel. The novel is quite slow paced mainly recalling information and brushes past events fairly quickly with not much information on parts of Pollock's life, again I wish it had a more in-depth look and felt that there needed to be more of this novel. I loved the spreads that included a representation of pollocks artwork, though, from the point of view of a designer, I feel these could have been used more creatively throughout the novel, in the comic panels and the typography. Overall this was intriguing and has made me want to look more into this operation too.
4609	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Pollock Confidential: A Graphic Novel by Onofrio Catacchio is an interesting fictionalized account of a real CIA operation centering on Jackson Pollock.  First, I think prospective readers need to know what this short book is not. It is not a biography (though there is a brief overview of his early life) and this is not an assessment of his art. This is a fictionalized account of what amounts to a chapter out of both Pollock's life and CIA history. It is not intended to be a detailed history nor is it used as an opportunity to promote Pollock.  Having said all that, I think the book is really hit or miss. For me, it was more hit than miss, but that is as much because of my interests as it is the book. For some others it will likely be more miss and likely for the reasons I mention above about what the book is not. I knew about Pollock's life and art, so I am okay with having a short chapter that has some fun with a hypothetical agent. If you want more about Pollock or his art, you may find yourself wondering why you're reading this.  I would recommend this mostly to those who already know Pollock's work and life and might enjoy this fictionalized chapter out of it. While I think some other readers might be moved to learn more after reading this book I am afraid that without some background a reader might end up not caring about either the book or Pollock.  Reviewed from a copy made available by the publisher via NetGalley.
4610	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	I did really enjoy this graphic bio of Jackson Pollock and his connection to the C.I.A. How did these two entities mesh? Well, the C.I.A. came into being after WWII, and almost immediately began the Long Leash program, instituted as a way to fight the Cold Way using the arts as a weapon. It spent 20 years pitting Abstract Expressionism against Socialist Realism, to show America as the land of freedom to express oneself, to think freely, to create the art one wanted to create rather than the art one was told to create. This program secretly funded artists for years, all to promote American arts around the world, and Pollock, who was becoming a major player in the movement, made a great poster boy- a rebel cowboy, independent and unafraid. This bio is brief, a bio-lite if you will, but the major details are covered. There is some fiction to this, but most is fact, including the characters- just one character is fictional, but it does make the story flow, and doesn't change the story. The writing is a bit dry, to be honest, but is still interesting. The artwork is the star here- Catacchio's illustrations are striking, with color palettes that echo Pollock's work.  #PollockConfidential #NetGalley
4611	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	I received an advanced copy of Pollock Confidential from Netgalley so I could share my review with you!  Jackson Pollock was an artist known by many, but few know of the US government’s interest in him during the Cold War. His classification as a great American artist is not a work of accident, and had everything to do with the United States government’s desire to encourage a uniquely American style of art. Though Pollock’s life was short, it was full of color and experience, as shown in the Pollock Confidential. Told through the perspective of the man tasked with following Jackson Pollock, this graphic novel is a delightful glimpse into the past!  You can get your copy of Pollock Confidential on May 5th from Laurence King Publishing!  Onofrio Catacchio is the author of many graphic novels, in both English and Italian. I quite enjoyed reading this book, and was especially fond of his incorporation of Pollock’s actual paintings into the illustrations of the book! Graphic biographies can be extremely fun, especially when written by someone who cares about the story they are telling, which was clearly the case with the Pollock Confidential! The story was engaging and truthful, paired with fantastic artwork!  My Recommendation- If you want to know more about art history, but would like your information presented in a more artistic medium, Pollock Confidential would be a great place to start! I didn’t know anything about Jackson Pollock before reading this book, and I still really enjoyed it! It has actually inspired me to try my hand at some abstract art myself!
4612	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	This unique graphic novel tells of a bizarre period in history where American modern art was used a tool by the CIA. Focussing on Jackson Pollock, Catachhio sheds light into this once rumoured secret by showing a slice of this big conspiracy while teaching the reader about this creative genius.  Pollock is one of my favourite artists so I was intrigued by this book. The artwork of the graphic novel is appealing and would be a good way to hook someone who wasn’t familiar with Pollock’s style as an introduction to learning more about his talent. By leaning towards the subterfuge of the government instead of a standard bio of an artist, this is an excellent way to generate more interest in the title.  My only criticism is that it felt a bit short, I would’ve liked it to be longer but that might be because of my own interest in the artist and the era of the art movement featured.  I received a copy from the publishers via NetGalley in exchange for a review.
4613	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	*Thank you to Netgalley for this ARC for reading and reviews*  I am a huge fan of graphic novel memoirs and biographies; however, I was not expecting this. As an Art Historian I am a bit ashamed I didn't know anything about the CIA tailing Pollock, so that was something fun to discover. I agree with a lot of the reviews I've read here on Goodreads, I was expecting more of an overview of Pollock's work and a deeper dive of his life. It is a well known fact that Pollock was a very private person, so I was looking forward to learning more of the man. The CIA story, while crazy interesting, doesn't mesh well with the rest of the graphic novel. For someone like myself with some knowledge of the artist, this was a great novel. For readers who may not know much about Jackson Pollock, they should get this as a companion novel to a mid-century art book.
4614	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Who knew that Jackson Pollock and Abstract Expressionist was financially supported by the CIA to beat Russian Communism. Mind blown! This and more secrets are in the accurately named Pollock Confidential.  The artwork is very golden-age superhero. I expected to see color pixels if I looked really close. It fits the time period of the book—1930s-1950s.  Overall, Pollock Confidential is an unique well-researched look into a troubled man’s life—with some surprises along the way. 4 stars!  Thanks to Laurence King Publishing and NetGalley for a copy in exchange for my honest review.
4615	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	This is the biography of Jackson Pollock, whom I didn't know prior to reading this book, so it was very enlightening and interesting to know about him. This story is told from the POV of a CIA agent, Dan, who is being assigned to this case. He pretends to be an university student and befriends Pollock in order to prepare his report. This book provides glimpses into Jackson Pollock's life and his paintings. I enjoyed reading this book. Though the story seemed a bit incoherent at times, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. The illustrations were great.
4616	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	"I think I've had the reaction that 99.9% of the people who've written a review to this book had. ""How the hell did I not know about 'Long Leash'?!""  This graphic novel is historical fiction based on real life. There's a bit of Pollock's biography, but more his invlolvement with the CIA in regards to codename ""Long Leash"", and way more about the overall project that the CIA created to promote American art because too many Americans, they felt, were becoming much more interested in Russian art. I liked it."
4617	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Catacchio's Pollock Confidential melds fiction and history, telling the tale of Pollock's run-in with the CIA amidst WWII. Whilst the art was well done, it was quite difficult to differentiate between fact and fiction = this should be clarified within the introduction. This being said, I nevertheless enjoyed the graphic novel and would recommend it to a Young Adult Audience.  I received a complementary copy of this book from the publisher and Netgalley, in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.
4618	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	I enjoyed reading a biography of Jackson Pollock in graphic novel form. The narrative is told from the point of view of a CIA opperative who is assigned to the case to promote abstract expressionism and American contemporary art to counteract Communistic influences. It is a creative take on Pollock's life. With bold graphics and a complex narrative structure, it is suitable for grades 6 and up.  Advanced copy provided courtesty of #NetGalley for an honest review.
4619	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	"2.5 rounded up to 3.  I am no artist and I don't pretend to know about 'art'. I had heard of Jackson Pollock but was unaware of his connection with CIA's ""Long Leash"" project.  Abstract 'art' looks like garbage to me but who am I to say. I would have preferred a bit more detailed writeup of Pollock's life other than the fact that he was an artist who was a depressed drunkard (or was it the other way around)?"
4620	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Had you told me twenty years ago (or more) when I started reading comic books and graphic novels that I would one day be reading a graphic novel about Jackson Pollock, I probably wouldn't have believed you. Onofrio Cattacchio offers the reader beauty in this visual exploration of a unique and groundbreaking artist. This is a book to add to your shelf, for sure.
4621	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	"I found ""Pollock Confidential"" to be a well-done exploration of the later years of Pollock's life and how he influenced modern American art. The artwork was wonderful and the quotes from Pollock were used well throughout the book. Good source notes at the end. "
4622	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	While I liked this look at Jackson Pollock's life and work, I was mixed on the government surveillance/secret manipulation aspect (which really happened) and the created CIA agent character. (e-galley from NetGalley)
4623	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Quick read and informative to a degree, the graphic novel provides some context around the timing of Pollack's work and his life. The narrative structure was bland and the involvement of the CIA, while trivially interesting, was overdone and tried too hard to build emotion. 
4624	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Pollock Confidential is a graphic novel with a bit of history and a bit of fiction to tell the story of Jackson Pollock. Catacchio does a great job of telling the history of Pollock through the eyes of a fictional CIA agent along with beautiful art. When my family visited NYC and went to the MET the main items my daughter wanted to see where the Pollock pieces and they were amazing so it was nice to have a bit more background on the artist through this novel.  I was provided with an electronic ARC through NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.
4625	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	I enjoyed this! It’s nothing heavy but a great summary of Pollock and his emergence. Admixed with political intrigue this “comic” is quite fun to read...
4627	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	The most interesting part was the little explanation from the author at the end of the graphic novel. It wasn't really doing it for me but somebody else might like this book.
4628	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	This is a brief bio of Jackson Pollack, that focuses on the use of art as much as on the artist. It’s a quick read but is beautifully illustrated. I think this is one that’ll be read and reread.
4629	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Sassy, cool and still engaging, this short read gives a glimpse into the life of the great artist and his tumultuous life through the eyes of a government agent.
4631	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Graphic novel biography which uses direct quotes from pollack. 
4633	Pollock_Confidential:_A_Graphic_Novel	Interesting presentation of Pollock. My favorite were the illustrations of actual documents from his life. My second favorite were the backgrounds. Just a solid graphic biography. 
